By Sgt. Jeremy Pitcher, USA
American Forces Press Service
Jan. 2, 2007 With the state funeral for former President Gerald R. Ford moving here tomorrow, members of the 126th Army Band of the Michigan Army National Guard are honing their skills for the historic event. The 126th Army Band is tasked to provide the instrumental music for three ceremonies. For each ceremony, the Ford family has chosen what numbers they would like to have played, and when. The song lists for the events are composed of expected melodies, common at any presidential funeral, along with family favorites meant to remember and honor Ford.
First Sgt. James Zwarensteyn, a member of the 126th for his entire 37 year military career, has played at many events for the former president..
"We played for Ford's 90th birthday, the dedication and rededication of Ford's museum and library," he said. "This is bigger, though. We are all acutely aware of how important these ceremonies are going to be."
The 126th Army Band is made up of of 35 musicians, a director and Zwarensteyn, who serves as the drum major.
"Being a part us this ceremony is a real honor for all of us," he said. "For it to be on a worldwide stage, and for someone so important to this state, (it) is just a tremendous honor for us to be involved."
When not working with the National Guard, Zwarensteyn is a band teacher in his local school district.
(Sgt. Jeremy Pitcher is a member of the Michigan Army National Guard.)
Article sponsored by criminal justice leadership ; and, police and military personnel who have become writers.
President Bush Speaking at
Former President Ford's Funeral
I watched Former President Gerald R. Ford's state funeral from the Washington National Cathedral this morning. It was a nice one, of course. Both President Bush and Former President Bush gave very nice eulogies, I think, as did the Honorable Henry Kissinger and Mr. Tom Brocaw. I thank the Lord that Mr. Clinton was not given the opportunity to get up there and deliver some sugary, fake eulogy. It was bad enough that, of all of the people in attendance who I saw on television, it appeared that only Senator Hillary Clinton and her daughter, Chelsea Clinton, were genuinely enjoying themselves... chatting, smiling, and even giggling together just before the service began.
The former president's funeral was actually the third presidential funeral that I remember watching; I watched Former President Reagan's (also from the Washington National Cathedral) and Former President Nixon's (from Yorba Linda, CA). Though, I am certain that, if they were televised, I must have seen at least part of the funerals of Former Presidents Johnson, Truman, and Eisenhower, since my parents would have been watching them.
The general theme of Mr. Ford's funeral seemed to center around on his humility, his kindess, his moral rectitude, his commitment to his church and to God, his dedication to putting the pieces of our nation back together after the debacles of the early 1970s, and, of course, his never ending sense of humor. Hardly anyone could help but laugh when Former President Bush remembered that his friend, 'Gerry' had once said, "I know that I'm getting better at golf because I'm hitting fewer spectators!".
I can't say that I was ever a big fan of Gerald Ford the President. To be fair, though, it seems that he never aspired to be President in the first place... he just kind of landed there. Nevertheless, I did admire Gerald Ford the Man. So, vade in pace , Mr. Ford... requiescat in pace .
Washington Pays Tribute to Former President Ford
(REUTERS Larry Downing (UNITED STATES)
The presidential flag is displayed as the casket of former U.S. President Gerald R. Ford is carried into the National Cathedral in Washington, DC Tuesday, January 2, 2007 for his homegoing celebration.
More on Ford: http: news.yahoo.com s ap 20070102 ap_on_re_us gerald_ford
http: www.cnn.com 2007 POLITICS 01 02 ford.funeral index.html
Oprah Opens Academy for Girls in South Africa
(Siphiwe Sibeko Reuters)
Winfrey said her desire to feel a greater connection with the people she was trying to help led her to build a school for poor girls in South Africa. Opening today in a small town outside of Johannesburg, the 40 million, 28 building Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls features a yoga studio and beauty salon, among other luxuries for 152 students.
Read more about the opening here: http: news.yahoo.com s nm 20070102 people_nm safrica_winfrey_education_dc
http: www.cnn.com 2007 WORLD africa 01 01 oprah.school.ap index.html?eref rss_topstories
Oprah has taken quite a bit of flack lately regarding her generous contributions for education in South Africa. Critics have questioned her decision help educate Africa's children instead of America's inner city students.
Find out more about the criticism regarding Oprah's contributions: http: www.nydailynews.com 01 01 2007 news gossip story 484713p 408116c.html
Broncos Mourn Loss of Player in Drive by Shooting
Darrent Williams at a media appearance back in October 2006. Williams who went on to play for the Denver Broncos was killed Monday, January 1, 2007 in a drive by shooting following a nightclub dispute. Police are still searching for a white SUV in connection with the shooting.
More here: http: msn.foxsports.com nfl story 6323794?FSO1 GT1 9012
Olusegun Obasanjo Advises Nigerians on Selecting Leaders in New Year
(AFP File Pius Utomi Ekpei)
Nigeria's President Olusegun Obasanjo, here on December 14, 2006, is due to step down next year after eight years in power. He urged voters in his New Year address not to choose "corrupt and inept" leaders in the April 2007 elections.
'I urge you ... not to allow the actualisation our collective dream of a just, peaceful and prosperous nation, which we have laboured for in the past eight years, to be truncated by the emergence of corrupt and inept leaders as successors to the current administration", Obansanjo advised.
Find out more about the upcoming vote here: http: news.yahoo.com s afp 20061231 wl_africa_afp nigeriapolitics
Read about the catastrophes that plagued Nigeria in 2006: http: news.yahoo.com s afp 20061231 wl_africa_afp nigeriadisasteryear
The head of the Greater Des Moines Convention and Visitors Bureau appeared on MSNBC today to tote the bureau's attempt to launch a concert of rock stars, comedians, and other Hollywood types for what it hopes will become a nationally televised show to kick off the 2008 Iowa Cauci.
No performers have been booked but we know some of the wish list. Lee Greenwood (patriotic country singer) and Brittany Spears are at the top.
I don't know about you, but nothing says Iowa values and politics like a blond bimbo who: doesn't wear underwear, doesn't know where Iowa is on the map, parties all night dispite being a mom, and doesn't know who the president is.
While we are at it, can we invite Tara Reid too(another wardrobe malfunction victim) ? I hear she messed up the New Year's countdown at some party.
I will say Lee Greenwood is a good choice for this, BUT he isn't scandalous or a skank so he probably wont make the cut.
I'm all for improving the participation in the political process, but I have a better idea for doing it. Why don't we just turn the presidential election process into American Idol ? Far more people watch that show and voted for the contestatns than voted in the president process.
By John J. Kruzel
Jan. 3, 2007 Nine months into his presidency, on May 12, 1975, Gerald R. Ford was forced to take military action and deal with an international hostage crisis. President Bush recalled "The Mayuaguez Incident" during his eulogy yesterday at Ford's state funeral services held at the Washington National Cathedral here.
"When a U.S. ship called the Mayaguez was seized by Cambodia, President Ford made the tough decision to send in the Marines ," President Bush said yesterday in his eulogy at Ford's funeral, "and all the crew members were rescued."
The incident occurred less than two weeks after the fall of Saigon. Naval forces of the Khmer Rouge, Cambodia's communist dictatorship, intercepted the U.S. merchant ship SS Mayaguez off Cambodia's southern coast and captured the roughly 40 man crew.
The seizure occurred in a disputed section of the Gulf of Siam, with the international community recognizing the stretch as a free channel, and Khmer Rouge claiming it as Cambodian territory.
When the Mayaguez was seized, Ford called the act "piracy," and attempted to recover the victims through talks with Cambodia.
"We made diplomatic protests to the Cambodian government through the United Nations," Ford said during a 1976 presidential debate. "Every possible diplomatic means was utilized."
But lacking diplomatic ties between the U.S. and the newly installed Khmer Rouge, Ford's negotiations with the Cambodian combatants failed. He then opted for military intervention.
"I thought it was the right thing to do," Marine Corps Gen. James L. Jones, former Supreme Allied Commander, Europe, said in an interview with the American Forces Press Service. "You can't allow people to attack U.S. flagged ships and get away with it with impunity."
Jones served as a captain in the 3rd Battalion, 9th Marine Regiment one of three Marine regiments dispatched to Koh Tang on the rescue mission but he had left for Washington on military leave prior to Mayaguez's seizure and was not present during the mission.
"It's a strong naval tradition in the United States that when a ship comes under attack, that you're really attacking the United States," Jones said. "It's tantamount to landing in North Carolina, and there's a visceral response that comes with that."
Ford learned from intelligence reports that the Mayaguez was docked near Koh Tang, an island off the coast of Cambodia. It was believed the crew was being held on the island, and Ford committed to rescuing them.
"I had a responsibility, and so did the National Security Council, to meet the problem at hand," Ford said, referring to his decision to land forces on Koh Tang.
Ford responded by sending 16 Air Force HH 53 helicopters based in Thailand to the beaches of Koh Tang at sunrise on May 15. The frigate USS Henry Holt, serendipitously in the area, would provide support.
The mission was expected to be a rescue operation of low complexity and little combat. But Marine units and helicopter crews dispatched to Koh Tang were unaware the island was heavily defended by Khmer Rouge forces preparing for attacks from their Vietnamese neighbors.
U.S. servicemembers went in expecting 18 to 40 lightly armed militia fighters, but instead they found a reinforced battalion of elite Khmer Rouge naval infantry.
"The helicopter landing went badly. There was only one landing zone, and that was defended," Jones said. "When they landed they were severely hit; it was a real tenacious firefight. The Air Force helicopters that were assigned were not particularly trained for tactical landings."
The Cambodians shot down three of the first four helicopters that approached the island; one of them carrying the Marine forward air controller team. The fourth helicopter was badly damaged and was forced to abort.
For hours, Air Force A 7 attack aircrafts providing fire support failed to find the Marine units, let alone support them.
After the first wave of HH 53s, a boarding party transferred to the USS Holt by helicopter seized the Mayaguez, only to find the ship deserted. The Cambodians, it turns out, had taken the crew to mainland Cambodia two days earlier.
Perhaps prompted by potential strikes from attack aircraft on the USS Coral Sea, the Khmer Rouge released the Mayaguez's crew, sending them out in a Thai fishing boat. Destroyer USS Henry G. Wilson arrived on scene and took the crew aboard.
News of the crew's recovery prompted politicians in Washington to halt offensive action, much to the chagrin of troops engaged in the operation.
"One of the mistakes that was made in the senior echelons was that once the crew was released, the politicians wanted to stop the landing," Jones said. "So you had half the troops on the ground, another half waiting to go in; it was chaos.
"Somebody should have realized that once you start an amphibious landing you just don't stop it," Jones said. "Once you've committed, you're committed until you actually achieve your objective and then you can have your ceasefire. But you can't say 'Hey, they're out. Everybody leave.'"
In response to frantic lower echelon pleas, Ford rescinded the order to call off the operation. If the second wave had not landed as planned, the enemy might well have overrun all the remaining Marines on the island. Nevertheless, the Mayaguez Incident did not damage Ford's reputation with troops, Jones said.
"I think the decision to do it was absolutely correct and I think everybody else believed that as well," Jones said. "Marines are employed overseas and the thing they like best is to feel that they're going to be used and they're going to do something meaningful.
"Having gone through the fall of Saigon and watched (it) come down like a house of cards that same year, the opportunity to do something that was positive to try to free the crew was something that was motivating for all of us on the ground," Jones said.
"I'm not sure whether the landings motivated the (Khmer Rouge) to free the crew," Jones said. "But the desired outcome took place."
Members of the Mayaguez crew were especially thankful for Ford's commitment to their recovery.
"I got a call from the skipper of the Mayaguez," Ford said, "and he told me that it was the action of me, President Ford, that saved the lives of the crew of the Mayaguez."
"And I can assure you that if we had not taken the strong and forceful action that we did, we would have been criticized very, very severely for sitting back and not moving."
(Background information for this article was obtained from a Spring 2005 Air Space Power Journal article by retired U.S. Air Force Lt. Col. John F. Guilmartin Jr.)
Article sponsored by criminal justice leadership ; and, police and military personnel who have become authors.
I usually wait until the afternoons to post, but I couldn't pass this one up.
I don't know what rock I've been living under, but apparently Pat Robertson, evangalist and host of "The 700 Club," talks to God. I did not know that.
And what's more, God talks back. I really did not know that!
That's good news, because apparently God told Pat that there's going to be a terrorist attack that will cause "mass deaths" in late 2007. Pat opined that this would be a nuclear attack, although God didn't specify.
I guess God's not all about the details anymore. Noah at least found out there'd be water involved. But modern man? Forget it we have to guess.
CNN, publisher of this ground breaking story, did point out that God told Pat that Bush would "easily" win the 2004 presidential election. If "easily" means "by one percent," then I guess he was right. Bush beat Kerry with 51 percent of the vote.
God also told Pat of major weather events planned for 2006. He said (that's the capital H He) that storms and a tsunami would hit US coastlines in late 2006.
No tsunami appeared (sorry, Pat!), but guess what? In the fall and winter of 2006, there was stormy weather! On the coasts! It's unbelievable, I know, but I guess that's God for you. Always throwing a kink in the works for the nice folks who live near the edge. What's next? Flooding in low lying areas? Hurricanes in the south? It's almost apocalyptic!
Thank you, Pat Robertson.
o1 o1 2007 grand rapids, michigan 38 th president gerald r. ford buriel service final with forner first lady betty ford, family members and few friends. hail to the chief! may god bless the family and friends plus america. live on c span t.v. u.s. house of representatives channel. gerald ford final funeral service! ford was a president, vice president, member of the house of representatives, husband, father, football player and a friend to all who new him over his life time. buriel service on the hillside north of ford presidential museum. gerald r. ford state funeral. the military district of washington d.c. thank you for a job well done! 1974 to 1977 served as 38 th president a great leader for all of us on earth. 1913 2006 president gerald r. ford lived a good life with jesus christ. presidential museum, grand rapids, michigan. vice president will give the american flag to former first lady betty ford! c span took calls on 202 737 0001 and 202 737 0003 or www.cspan.org for more information. it's sad that most other national networks did not air much of the ford funeral services. as a vietnam war veteran i am glad what president ford did for the vietnam war the people, veterans and others too the people of vietnam. ford member of the house for 25 years! 10 months ford was vice president to the 37 th president richard m. nixon. his friend. president nixon was my commander in chief. ford was a great commander in chief! gerald r. ford museum. january 20, 1977 president jimmy carter took over as president. c span has done a great broadcast service to the americans and the world. i thank you c span for a job well done as a retired broadcaster i say shame on those others that cover re peat news. ford was also a ranger of the forest service. ford was a eagle scout. the salute to gerald r. ford the 38 th president. hail to the chief for the last time. grand rapids, michigan presidental library of gerald r. ford. gerald ford funeral buriel service 01 03 2007. ford family members. buriel service on hillside north of ford presidential museum. gerald ford state funeral final. grand rapids, michigan gerald ford presidential library. it's been a long service for all service members working ford's funeral and all. they all did a great job! it's always good to see the american flag and the presidental flag in the wind. gerald ford funeral burial service. former first lady betty ford in wheel chair. she is 88 years old. gerald r. ford funeral burial service. america and the world remembering gerald r. ford. ford interment ceremony final 01 03 2007. 21 gun salute. jet flights with missing man formation. taps played. the american flag given to former first lady betty ford. 1913 2006 the life of 38 th president gerald r. ford is over and final.
Awards
2006
Excellent Graduate of Shandong Province,
highest honor of Shandong
Province
2005
2005
Presidential Scholarship , Highest honor for SDU students
2004
Excellent Graduate Student Leader of Shandong University
2002 2003
Annual Full scholarship of Shandong
University
1999 2002
First class Scholarship for
consecutive four years
I'm a sucker for ceremonies and pageantry and I must confess that I've watched just about every minute of the memorial services and funeral services for President Ford. Since it's time for my Thursday Thirteen, I thought I'd list the 13 of the thoughts I've had about the services . . . .
1. It seemed like the funeral of the guy next door. If it weren't for the fact that the hearse had the Presidential seal on the door, you'd never know that the person being buried was a former President of the United States.
2. I thought the service at the World War II memorial on Saturday night was beautiful. What a nice way to honor a World War II veteran.
3. Watching those soldiers carry the casket up the stairs to the Capital Building was amazing. They made it look easy.
4. I noticed that all of the members of the color guard had at least three rows of medals on their chest. The military liaison guy that was with Mrs. Ford had the whole left side of his uniform covered in medals.
5. Dick Cheney's speech at the Capitol Building on Saturday night was beautiful. I don't much care for Mr. Cheney but the speech he gave was absolutely perfect.
6. It's bad enough to have lost your father and go through a funeral, but can you imagine how hard it was for the family to have to attend some sort of memorial service every day for a week? And know that there were cameras everywhere to record every moment?
7. I was very impressed that the Ford children shook hands with each of the visitors as they came to pay their respects to President Ford.
8. Poor Mrs. Ford. She looked so fragile and so little hanging onto the arm of the military liaison or one of her sons. The news commentators were always saying that she was so fragile, but I think she was one tough little lady to sit through a weeks worth of services.
9. It's been interesting to read all the articles about him on the internet and in the newspapers this week. The pictures of the clothes worn by President Ford were hilarious. But the really funny thing is that EVERYONE looked like that!!
10. I loved the music played during the services. The Marine Band and the various choirs did a great job. But the best part was hearing the University of Michigan marching band play the fight song when President Ford's casket landed in Grand Rapids. All weekend I kept waiting for somebody to play that song for him . . . and it brought tears to my eyes when I finally heard it. I'm a lifelong Ohio State fan so that's saying a lot.
11. When President Bush, Sr. did the "wouldn't be prudent" line during his eulogy, I got a case of the giggles that I couldn't control. I was watching the service over the internet here at work and the boss was probably wondering what was going on out here.
12. I only got to see the highlights of the graveside service yesterday because I was driving home from work when it was on. It was sad to see Mrs. Ford being pushed along in a wheelchair . . . I guess the events finally wore her out. I've always thought that the saddest part of any funeral is the graveside service. Yesterday was no exception. That's the first time that I had seen Mrs. Ford cry . . . and you could see the sadness in the eyes of all the children. Like they were finally realizing that their dad was really gone.
13. As sad as it is to watch a funeral, I'm glad that I had the chance to watch the coverage on this one.
Give us leadership (or give us death)
Isi Leibler, THE JERUSALEM POST Jan. 2, 2007
Conflicting government policies relating to the so called truce with the Palestinians are truly mind boggling. What has unfolded over the past few weeks signals that our leadership has plainly lost the plot.
The pride of Zionism was that after 2,000 years of powerlessness the Israeli army could defend the Jewish people. In fact, our citizens army did successfully repel the combined forces of all the Arab states seeking to annihilate us. Even now, in the wake of the blunders of our military and political leadership during the Lebanon war, the army of Israel remains the most effective military force in the region.
Yet over the past few weeks most of us have been aghast and enraged at the failure of the government to fulfill its primary responsibility ensuring the safety and security of the civilian population.
Our leaders entered into a truce fully aware that the Palestinians were incapable and had no intention of even trying to genuinely curtail the terror initiatives being directed against us. Our prime minister, Ehud Olmert, kissed Mahmoud Abbas, the duplicitous successor of Yasser Arafat, and proclaimed him a moderate genuinely committed to the illusory peace process. Yet this man, who hypocritically repeats the mantra that terror attacks harm the Arab cause, sustains a genocidal culture. He not only sanctifies suicide bombers; he personally introduced legislation to provide pensions for the families of the murderers.
To this day he adamantly refuses to intervene against terror initiatives orchestrated under his jurisdiction. His own security forces remain actively engaged in terror initiatives and are responsible for murdering more Israeli civilians than Hamas.
Hamas accepted the truce for its own, short term strategic requirements. But at least its leaders were honest about their intentions, proclaiming that, at a time of their choosing, they would unhesitatingly resume the battle for the liberation of all Palestine.
The IDF bitterly opposed the truce and warned the government that Israeli civilians would be at greater risk and that additional casualties would ensue. Although following the inauguration of the truce the Kassam rockets continued raining down on Sderot and the adjacent region, the army was explicitly precluded by the prime minister from taking defensive measures against the terrorists even if they were observed actually launching missiles against civilian targets.
The pathetic rationale of our prime minister and foreign minister was to prattle on about the enormous, positive global diplomatic benefits and the good will Israeli restraint was achieving.
FOLLOWING A series of near disasters, including Kassams striking a kindergarten, and only after two youngsters were critically injured did the prime minister ultimately agree to permit the IDF to fire on terrorists but only if they were in the actual process of launching attacks. Even then he continued to deny the army the right to pursue killers after the missiles had been launched.
To top off this surrealistic scenario, the Palestinians warned that if Israel acted against the Kassam launchers, the truce would be ended!
Such shocking behavior not only disgraces our dysfunctional leaders. It reflects adversely on the entire nation.
If Israeli civilians in Tel Aviv or other major cities were under missile attack and the government insisted that the army stand by passively, the people would march on the Knesset and street riots would ensue. But apparently, if the casualties are limited and restricted to a border region like Sderot, this may be justified on the grounds that European politicians and even Egypt applaud us for the restraint we display while terrorists launch lethal missiles against our civilians.
Such callous indifference to the life and limb of citizens is shocking. It is of course utterly inconsistent with the sanctity of life and the obligation to defend oneself from murderers, both embedded in Jewish tradition. But even setting that aside, the fact is that other than the Palestinians and their allies, no other country in the world would, as a matter of deliberate policy, sacrifice civilians to promote diplomatic interests.
The world is now becoming accustomed to Israeli civilians being targeted by missiles, and when the day finally comes that we act we will probably be condemned for not continuing to stand by passively as our innocent civilians are killed and maimed.
But there is worse to come. We acquiesced to Gaza being flooded with new and devastating weapons, explosives and missiles via the porous Egyptian border. These arms may complement the Hizbullah buildup in the north. In addition, our government also deferred to the request of the Americans that Abbas s presidential guard be enabled to receive weapons knowing that, as in the past, it is virtually certain they will be employed against us.
And, of course, the Iranians are training and funding Hamas in the most advanced techniques of terror. They even provide financial rewards to those involved in Kassam attacks, with bonuses when Israelis are killed.
WHAT MUST the Palestinians think? They surely believe that Hassan Nasrallah was right when he described Israel as a spider web, lacking the backbone to protect its own citizens. Our enemies are becoming emboldened, celebrating the fact that whatever was left of our deterrence is disappearing. They are being encouraged to believe that by continuing to kill and maim women and children, they will ultimately force us to capitulate.
Our apparent willingness now to release large numbers of prisoners with blood on their hands as a goodwill gesture makes it clear that killing Jews no longer even guarantees incarceration.
How much longer can the people of Israel be expected to continue tolerating the outrageous spins and zigzags of our failed prime minister, or the crude rhetoric of our chameleon like minister of defense using the media to castigate his prime minister? Or the vacuous outpourings of our foreign minister in defiance to Olmert, announcing that she intends to open an independent channel for negotiating with Abbas?
Other ministers also publicly argue with one another over crucial issues. And all this chaos prevails while our enemies gird themselves for war. Now, more than ever before, this country needs a coherent policy and a government which will speak with one voice and understand that the preservation of its citizens lives and limbs represents its first priority. If our failed leaders are unable to move in this direction and get their act together they forfeit the moral right to lead the country. The madness must stop!
The writer chairs the Diaspora Israel relations committee of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, and is a veteran international Jewish leader. ileibler netvision.net.il
Posted by Ted Belman 8:07 am
http: www.israpundit.com 2006 ?p 3653
If you're ever in the Springfield, Illinois area, be sure and stop to see the Lincoln Presidential Museum. The displays are so well done and so interesting. Judy especially enjoyed the display of gowns worn by former Presidential wives, many of them very old. Springfield offers many points of interests that we weren't able to see so we hope to visit this area again.
Dream Headlines : Imagined news for the year 2007
Salt Lake Tribune, The (UT)
January 2, 2007
Author: Tribune Editorial
Dear readers:
Today, in the spirit of the clean slate that a new year brings, we offer our fifth annual list of reader submitted Dream Headlines , headlines that people would hope to see in the next 12 months.
This year's suggestions included a wide range of topics, world, national and local, ranging from the absurd to the sublime. Here, in no particular order, are our favorites. Others will be posted in Plato's Cave, our staff blog http: blogs.sltrib.com editorial .
Thanks to all who offered their dreams .
Happy New Year!
The Salt Lake Tribune Editorial Board
Utah population rediscovers thinking, legislators panic
Paul Zelenka
Brian David Mitchell finalist in American Idol
Paul McGill
Iraqi security forces stand up
Scott Widmer
Congress goes kosher, renounces pork
Dennis Kay
Anonymous donor eliminates need for NPR fundraisers
Tom Eiche
MORE HEADLINES..................................
Kirby becomes serious and makes sense
Trib eliminates annoying sticky note on newspaper
NFL team comes to Salt Lake
TRAX gets understandable speakers on trains
No one died in Iraq today
Ed Hall
DeLay, Abramoff, Rumsfeld awarded Medal of Freedom
Supreme Court: Constitution declared unconstitutional
Iraq situation upgraded to monumental tragedy
Paul Zelenka
Rocky Anderson seeks Mexican presidency
Harry W. Patrick
Bush, Cheney resign; Pelosi takes oath
Hatch composes ballet: The Nutcaker
Frank Musgrave
Mary Brown Malouf finally finds restaurant she can stomach
Larry H. Miller bails out Real Salt Lake
Paul McGill
Larry H. Miller caves; Arena renamed US Airways Center
U.S. signs Kyoto
TSA stays stupid airport security rules
Scott Widmer
Democracy restored in USA: World watches
No more torture! Geneva not "quaint"
Utah public ed leads nation
Dennis L. Kay
Cannon out; Bagley to edit D News
Conway out; Kirby to edit Tribune
Fred Brady
Bush impeached
Monkey Wrench Gang finally succeeds
Washington Co. land boom busts
Edwin Firmage Jr.
Scientists find red meat lard have health benefits
Arthur Reilly
Questar provides free green stickers
Joyce Scott
Independent investigation launched for 9 11 crimes
Curtis Holt
Hinckley decries Utah theocracy; says 'Get real"
W. Ellington
Harvard and Yale abolish legacy admissions based on Bush presidential performance
U.S. troops push south to Panama in search of defendable southern border
Lew Baker
Nothing left to chance: Utah Lottery funds education
Brigitte Klement
Huntsman education plan: 'Adopt a Teacher'
Polygamists provide critical swing vote for Romney
Mike Ptaschinski
Hinckley reveals: Shun promiscuity, promote gay marriage
Mullen recants, returns to Tribune
Peggy Fujimura
Tribune hires a conservative to replace Mullen
James R. Clendenon
Bush administration on trial for war crimes
D. Wood
U.S. no longer largest arms dealer
Cheap, clean fusion power for all
Will Crowther
Hatch resigns: 'We lost our way, I'm sorry'
People take back government from business
Bush has epiphany: People mean more than money and power
Mike Coronella
Legislature repeals everything, adjourns, order ensues
Rob Latham
Monorail will connect City Creek Center to Gateway
Lake Powell filled to capacity
J.L. Smith
Mitt Romney changes mind again, wants Hillary as running mate
Alan E. Wright
Scores emulate Huntsmans: Thousand foster kids adopted
James Schnitter
Utah leads nation in science education
Teaching evolution becomes mandatory in Utah schools
Steven Peck
Mullen returns; editor fired
Willard G. Smith
Bush, Cheney impeached
Glen V. Ruff
Iraqi government orders all coalition forces out of country immediately
Joe Cronin
Utah's new 4th District elects Democrat
al Sadr: Democracy is better than Sharia
Gov confesses: I'm really a Democrat
Ann Kamp
Huntsman Cancer Center finds cure for breast cancer
Brian David Mitchell behaves in court
Original Book of Mormon found at Deseret Industries
Kobe Bryant has two scoreless games
Olympics return in 2014
Nancy S. Bento
Utah joins civilized world
Wine recognized as food
Glen M. Burnham
All U.S. troops home
G. Edward Lloyd
New Deseret News editor, Joe Cannon, provides details on brother Chris, Abramoff ties
Supreme Court decides that only civil weddings are legal
Jeffs has revelation: A woman to replace him
Paul S. Carpenter
Finealee Edukashun Fundead Fairlee: Tax Exhempshun per child Eliminated
Jon Dewey
Bush admits errors, abdicates
Fred Brady
Hatch shot while attempting gangsta rap
Fred Brady
Mero endorses Clinton
Fred Brady
Halliburton wins bid to rebuild New Orleans
Fred Brady
Osama gonna, blown up by U.S. troops
Tom Eiche
Pope says, 'We have gay priests, why not gay weddings?'
Arthur Rielly
Scientists find red meat and lard have health benefits
Arthur Reilly
Tribune ends silence, explains '04 Bush endorsement
Ashley Anderson
Huntsman adopts Navajo Nation
Susan Atkin
Mullen wins lottery, buys Tribune
Frank Musgrave
Utah first in nation in school funding
Vincent O'Rourke
Mormon Tabernacle Choir does hip hop
Ed Hall
Workers' pay upgraded to 1000 times CEOs'
Wayne Belka
Embarrassed church officials renounce GOP ties
Vincent O'Rourke
Kennard gives Winder key to golf cart
Ed Hall
Does Mitt Romney have a Soul? Does he believe in anything but his own ambition? Beyond the conservative resume he forged on the back of Massachusetts' gay population, is there a human being with deeply held convictions? I think not!
Steve Gardiner
Romney's act hits the road
Boston Globe, The (MA)
January 4, 2007
Author: Joan Vennochi
EXIT MITT Romney, stage right.
Will conservatives now forgive him for faking it as a centrist to win election in Massachusetts?
I bet they will. But it will take more than their forgiveness to win the office Romney covets: president of the United States.
Romney's hypocrisy on issues such as abortion and gay rights is blatant and breathtaking. But thanks to Massachusetts legislators, he leaves office with a huge political victory, in an arena that is important to conservative voters same sex marriage.
He's the number one guy in the country right now standing up to activist liberal judges and the gay marriage lobby. It doesn't get much better than that if you are seeking the GOP presidential nomination.
As he leaves office, Romney gets all the credit for forcing Bay State legislators to vote on whether to advance a constitutional amendment defining marriage as the union between a man and a woman.
And he did it in a way conservatives must consider delicious: He petitioned the Supreme Judicial Court, the same judicial body which sanctioned same sex marriage as a civil right, to order the Legislature to vote on a measure than may ultimately strip that right away.
The SJC said it could not order legislators to vote on the amendment, but labeled the Legislature's maneuvers to avoid a vote "indifference to, or defiance of, its constitutional duties." The humiliation worked, up to a point.
Legislators essentially killed a ballot initiative to amend the state Constitution by guaranteeing universal healthcare. But a raucous gathering of lawmakers guffawed their way to action on the marriage amendment, which needed 50 votes to advance. With no debate and little decorum, Senate President Robert E. Travaglini gaveled legislators into action. In the end, 61 voted in favor of advancing the amendment to ban gay marriage; 132 opposed it. Massachusetts, now the only state where same sex marriage is legal, took a step closer to banning it.
If the amendment gains a minimum of 50 votes in the 2007 08 session, it will be placed on the 2008 ballot as a referendum question. Incoming Governor Deval Patrick's last minute efforts to change the outcome were fruitless and made Romney's political victory all the sweeter.
For sure, presidential candidate Romney has a lot of explaining to do, including his journey from prochoice to prolife and the 1994 letter he wrote to the Log Cabin Club of Massachusetts when he was running for US Senate against Edward M. Kennedy. In it, Romney stated "I am more convinced than ever before that as we seek to establish full equality for America's gay and lesbian citizens, I will provide more effective leadership than my opponent."
But the new Romney mantra "Talk is cheap, but action is not" is already in place as a defense of those earlier political stances.
His "talk" to Massachusetts voters was less than cheap it was worthless. He said what he believed necessary to win election, then took pleasure in renouncing his earlier positions. However, his ability to coopt Massachusetts voters may boost his standing with conservatives elsewhere.
Romney is running to the right of Senator John McCain of Arizona. Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, a favorite of the religious right, is challenging Romney as the true conservative in the GOP contest. But, Romney has the hair, the teeth, the ground troops in Iowa, and the buzz with bloggers and pundits. And with this dramatic strike against same sex marriage in Massachusetts, he has fresh conservative bona fides.
Still, it's not all clear political sailing for the Bay State's ex governor, especially after last November's election results. At the time, voters said they were tired of divisive politics, the very kind Romney embraces in his calculated shift to the right.
His biggest challenge is not about political ideology; it's about political soul. Does he have one? Does he believe in anything but his own ambition? Beyond the conservative resume he forged on the back of Massachusetts' gay population, is there a human being with deeply held convictions? Can he get past the crowd that wakes up to fret about same sex marriage and connect with average voters on issues that define their everyday lives?
Romney's act goes only so far. Stage right is a first step. On its own, it does not lead directly to the Oval Office.
Joan Vennochi's e mail address is vennochi globe.com.
Boston Globe
http: hardblogger.msnbc.msn.com archive 2007 01 03 25981.aspx
'MULTIPLE CHOICE ROMNEY'
Posted: Wednesday, January 03, 2007 1:36 PM by Hardball
Bob Shrum
So Mitt Romney, who couldn t have been reelected governor of Massachusetts, is running for president. And that s one reason he couldn t have been reelected. To cater to Republican primary voters nationally, he decided to get right with the right wing canon. He not only became a crusader against same sex marriage, but adjured his previous professions, in 1994 and again in 2002, that he was pro choice. It recalls the comment of Ted Kennedy, who defeated him in the 1994 senate race, that Romney was multiple choice. The reason he may get away with his transmogrification is that the right wing can credit the notion that this Romney apparition is probably closer to his true self than the moderate clothes he conveniently donned to run for office in Massachusetts. In the general election, however, it would be pushing things for him to raise the age limit on the George W. Bush excuse and say he found his true self at the age of...50.
Romney is the remainder man of the Republican race, the one to have once conservatives realize that dwarf stars like Kansas Sen. Sam Brownback and former Virginia Gov. Jim Gilmore are dim possibilities. This also assumes, of course, that John McCain, who s been busily engaged in some base licking of his own, can t overcome the doubts about him by cozying up to Jerry Falwell. If McCain falters, Romney will be there as the plausible alternative. But in a straight up choice between them, McCain has the advantage. He s not only a genuine career long social conservative a truth obscured by the sliming he took from the Bush campaign in 2000 he s also the next in line, steadily drawing Bush operatives and fundraisers to his side, in a party that nominates by primogeniture and increasingly regards McCain as both acceptable enough to the base and electable enough in the country to hold the White House in 2008.
Romney the repentant moderate is probably a more authentic incarnation than Bush the compassionate conservative. I believe Romney means it and no moderate or progressive could happily look forward to his presidency. Ironically, he can claim one real achievement as governor, a progressive one: a healthcare plan to cover all the citizens of his state, although here too he tried to have it both ways and the legislature had to override his veto of the modest tax on business essential to the plan s solvency. In the end, his best realistic hope is probably the vice presidential nod that politically McCain is a latter day version of Ronald Reagan with Romney playing the role of the first George Bush, capable of adding an element of comparative youth to the GOP ticket. It would have helped, though, if, as the former chairman of the 2002 Winter Games in Utah, he had kept the Olympic torch and used it to light a bonfire of his past statements, for example that he was more pro gay rights than Ted Kennedy.
The bitter fruits of corruption
By Caroline B. Glick
http: www.JewishWorldReview.com With the Israeli media scope locked on bigger stories, the fact that Thursday Prime Minister Ehud Olmert paid an obsequious and shameful visit to a country which propagates Holocaust denial and sponsors the Palestinian jihad went largely unnoticed.
No, Olmert did not visit Iran. He visited Egypt.
Iran's Holocaust denial conference last month was roundly condemned in Israel and in the West as well it should have been. Not only is Holocaust denial intellectually and morally unacceptable. When undertaken by people whose stated desire is the physical annihilation of the Jewish state, Holocaust denial is also dangerous. Yet while everyone took note of the Iranian conference, aside from the Simon Wiesenthal Center, no one considered it disturbing when last week a sister conference organized by Egyptians who share Iran's aspiration to wipe Israel off the map was held.
Under the banner, "The Holocaust Lie," on December 27 the Egyptian Arab Socialist Party held its Holocaust denial conference in Cairo. The conference was broadcast live on Iran's Arabic language network Al Alam. Its keynote speaker was party leader Waheed al Uksory. Uksory gained international prominence for being one of the few politicians whom the regime permitted to run against Egypt's dictator Hosni Mubarak in the 2005 presidential elections.
That psychotic and genocidal hatred of the Jewish people rules the Egyptian street no less than it dominates the leadership ranks in Teheran has made no impression on Olmert and his associates. Far from responding to the Wiesenthal Center's call to protest the conference during his meeting yesterday with Mubarak at Sharm e Sheikh, Olmert and his colleagues devoted their time ahead of the summit to searching for new superlatives to heap onto Mubarak for his "responsible" leadership of the so called "moderate" Arab states.
Israelis received a taste of that "Egyptian moderation" on Wednesday night. On the eve of Olmert's visit with Mubarak, Channel 2 broadcast a Hamas recruitment video displaying the terror training camps it has built on the ruins of the Israeli communities of Gush Katif.
One of the stars of the film was an Egyptian jihadist who arrived at the camp for weapons training. He was filmed standing in front of the Egyptian flag no doubt in a bid to demonstrate his country's great contribution to making "liberated" Gaza the jihadist wonderland it is today.
Prior to Israel's withdrawal from Gaza, Israelis were led to believe that the role Egypt would play in the area after the retreat would be quite different. Under Mubarak's iron fisted leadership, Egypt was then prime minister Ariel Sharon's ace in the hole the leg on which his entire strategy of surrender rested.
Sharon and his advisors promised the Israeli people that we could trust Egypt to prevent Gaza from becoming a forward base for global jihad. To help Egypt fulfill its responsibilities, Sharon even agreed to breach the central principle and strategic guidepost of our peace treaty with Egypt the demilitarization of the Sinai Peninsula. With Sharon's blessing, Egyptian military forces were deployed along the border with Gaza for the first time since 1967.
Unfortunately, Holocaust denying Egypt has not lived up to Sharon's promises. Not only have its military forces done nothing to prevent the mass transfer of weapons to Gaza. Egyptian authorities have enabled the inundation of Gaza with advanced weapons systems by allowing weapons shipments from Iran, Lebanon and other countries to be transferred from Egyptian ports to Gaza through the breached border which Egyptian authorities have done nothing to seal off.
And as the Channel 2 film showed, the Egyptian military also allows foreign terrorists to enter Gaza at will.
Olmert's visit to Sharm e Sheikh yesterday is but one consequence of his government's overall foreign policy. Among its other guiding delusions, that policy is founded on the fiction of the existence of an Egyptian Israeli alliance and friendship. It is this imaginary alliance that informs Olmert's belief that Israel has no need, and indeed no right to fight the burgeoning threat to its national security emanating from "liberated" Gaza a threat that has grown to strategic proportions largely as a result of Egyptian actions.
But then the public and the media both had bigger fish to fry than Olmert's imaginary friendship with Mubarak. This week in two separate developments, the illusions of competence and integrity in the IDF General Staff and in the civil service came crashing down.
First, following a two day closed conference of the IDF's senior commanders, Tuesday night IDF Chief of General Staff Lt. Gen. Dan Halutz held a disturbing press conference where he presented his assessment of the central lessons from the summer's war. Earlier that day, the nation awoke to the news that overnight the police conducted mass arrests of the country's top tax officials, leading businessmen, and Olmert's bureau chief Shula Zaken. The arrests were the result of their investigation of a suspected conspiracy whereby acting under Zaken's alleged guidance, the businessmen and tax officials conspired to defraud the Tax Authority.
Standing before the cameras, Halutz enumerated a long list of strategic, operational, tactical and moral failures that took place during the course of the IDF's operation against Hizbullah last summer. While Halutz didn't admit it, a common thread runs through the General Staff's failure to clearly define its war aims to the forces in the field; the Navy's decision to send the INS Hanit into battle against an enemy armed with missiles without turning on its missile defense systems; the decision not to mobilize reserves or launch the ground campaign until it was too late to make a difference; the decision to ignore precise intelligence regarding Hizbullah's intentions and locations; and the failure to destroy Hizbullah's short range missile arsenal. The thread that links all these failures is Halutz himself.
Any doubt that Halutz is unfit to command the IDF dissipated Tuesday when he stated that one of his central lessons from the war is "that we need to redefine the concept of defeating the enemy." That is to say, since he is incapable of winning a war, he prefers to define defeat as victory and remain at his post.
No doubt to his great relief, Halutz's frightening display of arrogant incompetence was in the end relegated to the inside pages of the newspapers. It was hard to devote column space to the professional collapse of the IDF's General Staff when the heads of Israel's Tax Authority and Olmert's bureau chief were being shuttled from police interrogation rooms to the court house for arraignment.
The media and police spokespeople have emphasized that Shula Zaken's suspected involvement in massive corruption does not mean that Olmert had a role in the conspiracy. But whether Olmert played a role in the scheme to defraud the public trust or not, Zaken's suspected role in the plot indicates that a culture of criminal corruption apparently flourished inside of Olmert's office.
On their surface, neither Halutz's press conference nor the tax fraud scandal are connected to the Olmert government's hallucinatory policies towards Egypt. But in fact they are inextricably linked. The fact that Israel faces unprecedented threats to its security and very existence while it is being led by the most incompetent, corrupt leadership it has ever known is not coincidental.
To understand why this is the case it is necessary to recall how the current leaders came to be in their current positions in the first place.
In 2003, Ariel Sharon and his sons found themselves on the brink of political, economic and personal destruction. Criminal investigations of their alleged corruption were coming to a head and it was widely predicted that Sharon and his sons Omri and Gilad would all be indicted on felony charges. A way had to be found to step away from the abyss. After advising with Sharon's personal attorney and chief of staff Dov Weisglass, Sharon and his sons chose to protect themselves by adopting the Left's irrational strategy of destroying Israeli communities and giving their land to terrorists. That is how the policy of retreating from Gaza and northern Samaria and carrying out the mass expulsion of Israeli citizens from the areas was born.
Sharon's moral and criminal corruption, like the strategic insanity and danger inherent in the decision to transfer control of Gaza to Hamas and Fatah were self evident. And yet, as Sharon predicted, the media, law enforcement and judicial authorities which are dominated by the Left chose to ignore the truth. Overnight the media transformed Sharon from the corrupt politician to the visionary leader. As Amnon Abramovich, Channel 2's chief commentator explained, the media understood that corrupt or not, their job was to protect Sharon to make sure he threw the Jews out of Gush Katif. And as Supreme Court Justice Mishel Cheshin admitted in an interview upon his retirement, the Supreme Court justices would never have dreamed of acting against Sharon lest they endanger the withdrawal.
Senior officials, cabinet ministers and the IDF General Staff first heard of the withdrawal plan from the media. Those who dared to question the retreat policy were distanced from positions of influence. Then national security advisor Maj. Gen. (res.) Giora Eiland couldn't get an audience with Sharon.
Then the IDF's chief of general staff Lt. Gen. Moshe Ya'alon was fired. And so it was that Halutz, a good friend of Omri's and a good pilot by all accounts, was promoted to replace Ya'alon who although far more qualified than he to command the military, was far less obedient.
In the political arena, Sharon's advisors moved quickly to destroy his political opponents. Then finance minister Binyamin Netanyahu was demonized. Government ministers from Shas and the National Union were fired. In their place Sharon promoted obedient, opportunistic and inexperienced yes men. So it was that Olmert and Tzipi Livni rose to the top positions in his cabinet.
In summary, Sharon's corruption caused him to adopt irrational strategic policies. Principled opposition to these policies voiced by senior public servants and politicians, led to their removal from positions of influence. These competent public servants were then replaced by incompetents whose only qualification for their jobs was their total obedience to Sharon.
Sharon's defenders claim that he knew that the people he surrounded himself with after deciding to retreat from Gaza were incompetent to lead the country. But, they argue, Sharon did not foresee his stroke which placed these people in charge of the country. If he hadn't been incapacitated, they argue, everything would have turned out differently. Perhaps they are right. Perhaps not.
Whatever the case may be, the one obvious conclusion that can be drawn from the events of the past week and year without Sharon is that in order to forge competent, honest policies, Israel needs competent and honest leaders. And so to extricate itself from the morass of ineptitude and criminality that has become its public sector, Israel must find the way to rid ourselves of the current political and military leadership that embody both.
The good news is that we have an alternative leadership. It is made up of those principled public servants who were removed from positions of power for their refusal to deny the truth.
The Democrats want to tie tax breaks to cost reductions. My god, don t they realize that is conservative economics? What is this world coming to when Republicans run up the debt and Democrats act with fiscal responsibility? Barry Goldwater, the quintessential conservative Republican, must be spinning in his grave.
Nevertheless, it s a good thing we have Republicans. Otherwise the rich might not get richer and presidential powers might be limited. Also, who else but the Republicans would put dogma ahead of reason?
I found this article on New York Sun blog. While it concentrates on the attacks by New York Times against the most electable potential Republican Presidential contender, what is interesting to me is this:
Our favorite is this March 12 1996 editorial on Giuliani's trip to Jerusalem:
...Unhappily, that is what the Mayor did when he told Israelis on Sunday to be more cautious in their dealings with Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader. "Don't go romanticizing," the Mayor warned during his visit to Jerusalem. "Remember if you are asking something of him you need more proof that it is going to be carried out than if you asked that of someone else." ... The Mayor's clumsiness does not come entirely as a surprise. Last fall he rudely evicted Mr. Arafat from a Lincoln Center concert during the United Nations' 50th anniversary commemoration. Such stunts may win points among some of Mr. Giuliani's conservative Jewish supporters, but they demonstrate why most New Yorkers prefer to leave foreign policy to Presidents and secretaries of state. Would love to see the Times reprint that editorial today. So, the article quotes NYT criticizing Giuliani for being skeptical about Oslo Process. By the way, the Russian speaking Jews often call it "Oslinny process", since 'osel' in Russian means 'donkey'. But anyway, NYT criticism proves to me that Giuliani is exactly the leader we need to fight this war.
The Bush White House never ceases to amaze me. He claims to be so moral, and then all these dirty little secrets and lies keep coming out. If Bill Clinton had done this, we never would have known about Monica Lewinsky, but of course the Republican Congress would have called foul to high heaven. Yes, absolute power absolutely corrupts.
White House pact cloaked visits amid scandal
Accord with Secret Service locked up records during Abramoff imbroglio
Updated: 6:53 p.m. MT Jan 5, 2007 Associated Press
WASHINGTON The White House and the Secret Service quietly signed an agreement last spring in the midst of the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal declaring that records identifying visitors to the White House are not open to the public.
The Bush administration didn t reveal the existence of the memorandum of understanding until last fall. The White House is using it to deal with a legal problem on a separate front, a ruling by a federal judge ordering the production of Secret Service logs identifying visitors to the office of Vice President Dick Cheney. ...
The five page document dated May 17 declares that all entry and exit data on White House visitors belongs to the White House as presidential records rather than to the Secret Service as agency records. Therefore, the agreement states, the material is not subject to public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act.
Logs revealed Lewinsky visits
In the past, Secret Service logs have revealed the comings and goings of various White House visitors, including Monica Lewinsky and Clinton campaign donor Denise Rich, the wife of fugitive financier Marc Rich, who received a pardon in the closing hours of the Clinton administration.
The memo last spring was signed by the White House and Secret Service the day after a Washington based group asked a federal judge to impose sanctions on the Secret Service in a dispute over White House visitor logs for Abramoff.
The chief counsel to another Washington based group suing to get Secret Service logs calls the creation of the memo a political maneuver couched as a legal one.
It appears the White House is actually manufacturing evidence to further its own agenda, Anne Weismann, a Justice Department lawyer for 19 years and now chief counsel to Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, said Friday.
The White House and the Secret Service declined to comment.
Last year in the Abramoff scandal, the Bush administration, in response to three lawsuits, provided an incomplete picture of how many visits Abramoff and his lobbying team made to the White House.
The task of digging out Abramoff White House links fell to a House committee that collected the lobbyist s billing records and e mails. The House report found 485 lobbying contacts with presidential aides over three years, including 10 with top Bush administration aide Karl Rove.
...See complete article at: http: www.msnbc.msn.com id 16491370 ?GT1 8921
How sad that the wise words of both Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Jeane Kirkpatrick are so quickly forgotten. Consider this passage in Peter Beinart's column in the Jan. 1 15 issue of The New Republic:
"In Daniel Patrick Moynihan's famous maxim, conservatism's key insight was that culture matters more than politics. And, if a nation's culture was not conducive to democracy, attempts to impose one would backfire. In her famed 1979 Commentary essay, 'Dictatorships and Double Standards,' Jeane Kirkpatrick ridiculed the liberal demand that Nicaragua and Iran shed their authoritarianism as a precondition of U.S. support. 'No idea holds greater sway in the mind of educated Americans,' she wrote, 'than the belief that it is possible to democratize governments, anytime, anywhere, under any circumstances. This notion is belied by an enormous body of evidence.'"
If we look at the armed conflicts the U.S. engaged in and which failed Bosnia, Somalia, Vietnam, and now Iraq a common thread emerges, and that is the goal was to bring about democratization in those locations, not just remove a tyrant. George Herbert Bush's invasion of Iraq was so successful precisely because of its limited aim: remove Saddam from Kuwait, period. Everyone on the present Bush administration, including all those who support continued efforts in Iraq, should watch the movie "Lawrence of Arabia." The movie shows two things: because of the tribal nature of Middle Eastern society, you can't accomplish anything unless you bring forward a charismatic leader to motivate one or two of the tribes to work together toward a common goal; once that goal is achieved, forget about that coalition surviving under a democratic guise.
Switching gears, the Royal Air Force is using a gay rights group to promote enlistment among gays and lesbians. http: www.planetout.com news article.html?2007 01 02 5 In a similar vein, a former Joint Chief comes out and says why he would do away with the current "Don't Ask Don't Tell" policy employed in the U.S. http: www.planetout.com news article.html?2007 01 02 2 Of interest is this former chairman of the Joint Chiefs was among those supporting the DADT policy. What changed his mind? Meeting with gay servicemen. John Shalikashvili had also written an opinion piece for The New York Times explaining his change of mind. Not too long after Shalikashvili's "coming out," former Defense Secretary William Cohen took his own jab at DADT. http: www.planetout.com news article.html?2007 01 03 4
And in the tale of two governors, Massachusetts governor elect Deval Patrick vows to do what he can to preserve marriage equality there, while former governor Mitt Romney files papers to "explore" his options for a presidential run that will have "marriage preservation" (that is for str8s) as a prominent part of his campaign. http: www.planetout.com news article.html?2007 01 03 1
New Hampshire is the state that I think gave the Republican primary to Pat Buchanan over now President Bush and whose government officials serve for an honorarium versus a salary. It's also where after the "eminent domain" decision by the US Supreme Court, the town banded together to take Justice Souter's house in "eminent domain". It formerly had a woman governor, a Democrat, but had gone back to calling that position "His Excellency" again. New Hampshire Governor Wentworth became the Governor of Nova Scotia after the American Revolution, the only British politician to "survive" it. I hope she does well for their state, which has been an interesting political arena, still the first in the Presidential Primary. Neighbor Maine is reforming its Electoral College distribution from "all for one and all ye rest stand aside" to represent the actual popular vote and hopefully so will go the nation.
Source: Unlikely Freshman Couric Co.
I thought after the seriousness of that last blog we could use some humor around here! I hope y'all lol as much as I did!
Humorous Legal Cases
Avista Management v. Wausau Underwriters Insurance
U.S. Dist. Ct. Mid. Dist. Fla. (June 6, 2006)
Rock, Paper, Scissors I Win! In a case where a hotel investment firm sued an insurance company for allegedly not paying an insurance claim fast enough after Hurricane Charley, attorneys for the parties seemed at odds with each other from the get go. When it came down to where to depose a witness, the attorneys would do no better. Not being able to select a location between themselves, the court was asked to intervene. U.S. District Judge Gregory A. Presnell was not amused. After chastising the attorneys for not being able to agree on even the most simplest of things, Judge Presnell issued his written ruling:
" T he Court will fashion a new form of alternative dispute resolution, to wit: at 4:00 P.M. on Friday, June 30, 2006, counsel shall convene at a neutral site agreeable to both parties. If counsel cannot agree on a neutral site, they shall meet on the front steps of the Courthouse . Each lawyer shall be entitled to be accompanied by one paralegal who shall act as an attendant and witness. At that time and location, counsel shall engage in one (1) game of 'rock, paper, scissors.' The winner of this engagement shall be entitled to select the location for the 30(b)(6) deposition to be held somewhere in Hillsborough County during the period July 11 12, 2006."
The two lawyers met on June 7, 2006, a day later, and agreed to the location for the deposition, making the game unnecessary. For fear of being held in contempt of court, defense counsel filed a motion asking the judge to call the game off. Plaintiff's counsel joined in the motion. The judge vacated his previous ruling with the following, "With civility restored (at least for now), it is ordered that the motion is granted."
Ross v. GTE California
Superior Court of California (2000)
Attorney's have been called Sharks, but Reptiles? A Southern California attorney (full name intentionally withheld to avoid further embarassment) filed a lawsuit against GTE California (now Verizon) for being listed in its GTE Yellow Pages directory under the heading of "Reptiles." The lawsuit seeks damages in excess of 100,000.00 and alleges that the attorney became the target of jokes, rude telephone calls, people making hissing sounds in jest, and suffered other forms of ridicule and embarassment. It appears as though GTE inadvertantly listed the attorney under the heading of "Reptiles" in its December 1999 Yellow Pages due to the fact that the the attorney's telephone number was previously issued to a recently defunct business named the "Reptile Show." Somehow GTE forgot to update its records. Ooops! On a positive note, the attorney was listed below "Prehistoric Pets" and "Radical Reptiles."
Bradshaw v. Unity Marine Corp.
147 F.Supp.2d 668, 670 (S.D. Texas 2001)
Now, Now Children. The plaintiff filed suit after allegedly sustaining injuries during his employment as a shiphand on a tug boat. Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment to dismiss the case. After submitting written briefs and having oral argument, the court handed down its written ruling, as follows:
"Defendant begins the decent into Alice's Wonderland by submitting a Motion that relies upon only one legal authority ... Plaintiff responds to this deft, yet minimalist analytical wizardry with an equally gossamer wisp of an argument, ... naturally Plaintiff also neglects to provide any analysis whatsoever .... Instead, Plaintiff 'cites' to a single case from the Fourth Circuit. Plaintiff's citation, however, points to a nonexistent Volume '1886' of the Federal Reporter ... and neglects to provide a pinpoint citation for what, after being located, turned out to be a forty page decision. (What the ...)?! The Court cannot even begin to comprehend why this case was selected for reference. It is almost as if Plaintiff's counsel chose the opinion by throwing long range darts at the Federal Reporter (remarkably enough hitting a nonexistent volume!) ... Despite the continued shortcomings of Plaintiff's supplemental submission, the Court commends Plaintiff for his vastly improved choice of crayon Brick Red is much easier on the eyes than Goldenrod, and stands out much better amidst the mustard splotched about Plaintiff's briefing ...
It is well known around these parts that Plaintiff's lawyer is equally likable and has been writing crisply in ink since the second grade. Some old timers even spin yarns of an ability to type. The Court cannot speak to the veracity of such loose talk, but out of an abundance of caution, the Court suggests that Plaintiff's lovable counsel has best upgrade to a nice shiny No. 2 pencil or at least sharpen what's left of the stubs of his crayons for what remains of this heart stopping, spine tingling action ... In either case, the Court cautions Plaintiff's counsel not to run with a sharpened writing utensil in hand he could put his eye out."
Defendant's Motion for Summary Judgment was Granted. Case dismissed.
Stein v. Willow Beach Colorado River Recreation Association
Los Angeles County Municipal Court, Case No. SB94C02433 (1994)
I'm OK, and So Am I. An attorney representing himself in a case for recovery of his fees had his case dismissed because he failed to appear for a scheduled court hearing. He subsequently filed a motion requesting relief from the judgment of dismissal based upon the theory that it wouldn't be fair to penalize the client for the mistakes of his attorney. Defendants filed their opposition to the motion, which included the following excerpt:
"Uniquely, Plaintiff herein, an attorney litigating in pro se, is alleging that he has caused his client (himself) irreparable harm for which he should not be made to bear the mistakes of his attorney (also himself). Defendants, jokingly, have dubbed this the 'Sybil' defense."
RQdN v. Teerlink, et al.
(2004, California)
Just Imagine. In a case of one website versus another in a copyright infringement matter governed by the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 ("DMCA"), where the offending party had copied an entire website, replaced the logos with their own and uploaded the same on the Internet. During investigation of the matter, it was learned that the offending party had posted on their spiffy new website that they were incorporated in 1999 when, in fact, no such incorporating had ever taken place. In its demand to cease and desist, RQdN was heard to quip:
"We can only assume that such incorporation is a mere figment of your imagination, just as your website is a complete figment of ours."
Turnage v. Christy Brothers Circus
144 S.E. 680 (1928)
Nevermind the Monkeys, Watch the Horses!! The plaintiff, an unmarried lady, while attending a circus performance as a guest of the circus, was seated in the front row. During the show, "a horse, which was going through a dancing performance immediately in front of where plaintiff was sitting, ... caused to back towards the plaintiff, and while in this situation the horse evacuated his bowels into her lap, that this occured in full view of many people, ... all of whom laughed at the occurrence, that as a result thereof the plaintiff was caused much embarassment, mortification, and mental pain and suffering ..."
Judgment for plaintiff.
Koutsouradis v. Delta Airlines
___ F.4d ___ (11th Cir. 2005)
Batteries Included. A 36 year old married woman filed a lawsuit against Delta Airlines for being publicly humiliated after she boarded a Delta Airlines flight with her husband in Dallas, Texas on a stop over from Las Vegas, Nevada to her home in Clearwater, Florida. After boarding, the woman surprising heard her name being called on the plane's P.A. system asking her to identfy herself and to please come forward. Alarmed, the woman complied, and was greeted by a Delta security agent who informed her that something in her luggage was vibrating. The woman was escorted off of the plane by the security agent and lead to the tarmack next to the plane where her luggage had been placed. The woman explained to the security agent that the vibrating must be from an adult toy she purchased while in Las Vegas. The security agent, not being satisfied with this representation, made the woman remove the toy from the luggage and hold it up for inspection, in full view of curious passengers looking out the windows of the plane as well as in front of a few Delta ground personnel who, as the complaint alleges, "began laughing hysterically." The woman was allowed to repack her luggage and return to her seat on the plane. Albeit, a little red faced we're sure.
Mattel v. MCA Records
296 F.3d 894 (9th Cir. 2002)
Barbie! Now with Pirate Accessories. MCA released a song entitled "Barbie Girl," which didn't paint the toy doll in the best of light. After the song hit the Top 40, Mattel filed an infringement suit for the unfair use of the name. MCA countered by agreeing to place a disclaimer on the album stating that the song was "social commentary and not created or approved by the makers of the doll." Mattel shot back, "That's unacceptable ... It's akin to a bank robber handing a note of apology to a teller during a heist. It neither diminishes the severity of the crime nor does it make it legal." MCA then filed a counter claim for defamation based upon Mattel's characterization of MCA and its use of the words "bank robber," "heist," "crime," and "theft."
In dealing with MCA's counter claim for defamation the court opinined, "All of these terms are variants of the invective most often hurled at accused infringers, namely 'piracy'. No one hearing this accusation understands intellectual property owners to be saying that infringers are nautical cutthroats with eyepatches and peg legs who board galleons to plunder cargo."
In this rather heated trial and appeal, where the parties used the press to trade insults and slurs at one another, MCA ultimately prevailed and the song was deemed non infringing. The court's opinion aptly ends:
"The parties are advised to chill."
Pillars v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
78 So. 365, 366 (Miss. 1918)
Hold the Toes Please. "We can imagine no reason why, with ordinary care, human toes could not be left out of chewing tobacco, and if toes are found in chewing tobacco, it seems to us that somebody has been very careless."
Gordon v. Secretary of State of New Jersey
460 F.Supp. 1026 (D. N.J. 1978)
Rock the Vote! Plaintiff, while a guest in the Worcester County Jail in Massachusetts, filed a complaint in pro per alleging (1) that he was a certified candidate for the office of President of the United States; (2) that on December 2, 1978 sic Plaintiff was unlawfully arrested while campaigning in the New Hampshire Presidential Primary, and unlawfully jailed without bail until March 15, 1976. As a consequence, the 1976 presidential election was fraudulent; (3) that had there been a free legal 1976 Presidential election, Plaintiff would have become the President of the United States; (4) that Jimmy Carter illegally holds the Office of the President of the United States; and (5) that Plaintiff should be released from jail so that a new and legal Presidential election can be performed.
Case dismissed as frivolous.
I've taken the liberty of putting your
name into the
drawing for a Seven day Six night Cruise on the
fabulous
new Gypsy Queen Cruise Line ship the
'Dixie Belle'.
All airfares,
transfers, food and drinks included
with dinner at the captain's table
as his personal
guest. Good luck, I hope
you win!
The Flagship ' Dixie Belle' is shown
below...
Your first night's meal promises to be scrumptious, featuring
fillet
of Catfish,
Hush Puppies and Collards, with all you can eat Boiled
Louisianna Rusty
Crawfish! Boy, I wish I was goin' with ya'll. If'n
ya'll win, make sure to
send pictures, especially of the Famous,
'Ole' Muddy Midnight Skinny Dip, with
your hostesses Eulla Bell
and Krissie.
Since ya'll may have the presidential suite, yu'in's will
have
a balcony view and the finest facilities.
Nothing... is too good for my
family and friends...!
Deputy Defense Minister Hints: 'Barghouti May Be Freed'
10:23 Jan 15, '07 25 Tevet 5767
by Hana Levi Julian
Five life sentences for murdering more than 30 Israeli civilians may not stop Israel from ultimately granting Palestinian Authority terrorist Marwan Barghouti his freedom, Ephraim Sneh says.
Deputy Defense Minister Ephraim Sneh of Labor (pictured) suggested Sunday evening that Barghouti may be more valuable to Israel as a free man than as a prisoner.
Barghouti is the Palestinian people s most popular leader, Sneh said in a speech before the Council for Peace and Security. We helped him gain this status.
His blood drenched background and subsequent five life sentences for murdering Israeli citizens notwithstanding, maintained Sneh, does not change the fact that Israel may be forced to free Barghouti anyway. Granted, there are legal obstacles to releasing him, but we will have to solve them, he said.
Barghouti is among the terrorist prisoners whose release is demanded by the Hamas kidnappers of IDF Corp. Gilad Shalit in exchange for his release.
Knesset Member Effie Eitam (National Union) slammed the idea, saying that freeing Barghouti would represent moral bankruptcy of law and justice. He added that the five time convict must remain jailed for life, in accordance with the ruling of the court, to pay the price of planning and carrying out murder of innocent people.
As the head of the Fatah terrorist faction in Judea and Samaria, Barghouti is still considered a major leader in the PA.
The arch terrorist was one of the authors last year of the Prisoners Document drawn up by terrorists being held in Israeli jails. Five leaders representing five different terror organizations collaborated in formulating the 18 point proposal, which called for the establishment of a PA state in all of Judea, Samaria and Gaza. Leaders of Fatah, Hamas, Islamic Jihad, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) and the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP) all signed the document.
The Prisoners Document, authored primarily by Barghouti, was originally praised as a plan which implied the PA recognition of the State of Israel and its right to exist. Close reading of the document, however, makes it clear that there is no mention of this point.
Media reports last month said that senior Fatah members are considering running Barghouti to lead the PA in elections that may be held soon. PA Chairman Mahmoud Abbas (Abu Mazen) of Fatah recently said he would call new elections. It is believed that Israel would be forced to release Barghouti if he is elected.
The issue of Marwan Barghouti has been one of the major sticking points in negotiations over a prisoner swap deal to free IDF Cpl. Gilad Shalit.
Although Egyptian intelligence officials have repeatedly tried to broker an agreement with the Hamas linked Palestinian Authority terrorists who kidnapped Shalit last June, the deals have so far come to nothing.
Each time an agreement has appeared imminent, the terrorists backed out, dangling the hope of Shalit s release while threatening to hold him for years until Israel complies with all of their demands. These include the release of more than 1,000 prisoners, many of whom Israel has vowed never to free.
Because he is a prisoner with blood on his hands, Barghouti does not meet the Israeli criteria for release in a prisoner exchange. If any exception were to be made, it would require a presidential pardon.
Barghouti was one of the major leaders of the first intifada in 1987, as he was in the Oslo War which began in 2000 and has not ended. He was deported to Jordan the first time, but was allowed to return in 1994 under the terms of the Oslo Accords.
Prior to the Oslo War, Barghouti was considered a moderate among PA Arabs. He was perceived as an Arab leader who pushed for negotiations with Israel aimed at gaining an independent PA state.
The picture changed radically in 2000, and Barghouti s popularity grew along with his leadership of various terrorist gangs, including the Tanzim group and the al Aksa Martyrs Brigades.
In the two years before he was captured by the IDF, he had become a leader in the PA war against Israel, killing 33 Jewish and Gentile Israeli civilians as well as soldiers.
Click here for our free Daily News Report from Israel
Published: 10:12 January 15, 2007
Last Update: 10:23 January 15, 2007
As the '08 race gets going, many postings will be made on this site concerning that race.
That does not of course mean that Iowa members of the John Birch Society all agree on
the same candidate, or endorse one candidate. As an individual, I flipped a coin between
Paul Tancredo and chose Tom. I'll also be posting info on Ron Paul, or any other candidate
that a BIRCHER wants promoted.
As experience, and HQ has made abundantly clear, the House of Representatives is the only
body that can bring this country back to its Constitutional roots . Presidential races are a
distraction, a money waster, and highly controlled by the media.
But they're still fun!
Jim Roach
Olivia I visited the National Museum of the Marine Corps at Quantico Marine Base on Martin Luther King day. Quantico Marine Base is the seat of the Marine Corps defense of the capital Washington D.C. It is a main training site for Marines and headquarters for the Presidential helicopter Marine One (HMX 1). Known as the "Crossroads of the Marine Corps", it is only about 15 miles from our home.
http: www.usmcmuseum.org
The National Museum of the Marine Corps was just built and completed in November 2006. Everybody who's been there has told me how amazing and lifelike the exhibits are. So I packed my new camera and we headed off to take a look see. We were not disappointed. You could spend an entire day (maybe two) gawking at the exhibits and the real aircraft suspended inside the building. I would recommend anyone visiting Washington to take this detour and experience this museum admission is free! My photos are in the photo library to the right.
Chavez Enters Third Term Touting Socialist Agenda
Skip directly to the full story .
By IAN JAMES The Associated Press
Published: Jan 11, 2007
ADVERTISEMENT
Search for more information:
Site Search Archives Keyword
TBO.com Site Search Tribune archive from 1990
CARACAS, VENEZUELA Invoking Christ and Castro as his socialist models, President Hugo Chavez began his third term Wednesday by declaring that socialism, not capitalism, is the only way forward for Venezuela and the world.
His first stop: Nicaragua, where leftist ally Daniel Ortega was returning to power with his own inauguration.
Chavez can now count on remaining president until 2013 or later if he gets his way with a constitutional amendment allowing him to run again.
At the apex of a resurgent Latin American left, Chavez has been emboldened to make more radical changes at home after winning re election with 63 percent of the vote, his widest margin ever.
His next moves include nationalizing electrical and telecommunications companies, forming a commission to oversee constitutional reforms and asking the National Assembly, entirely controlled by his supporters, to allow him to enact "revolutionary laws" by presidential decree.
His right hand raised, Chavez declared in words reminiscent of Cuban President Fidel Castro's famous call to arms: "Fatherland, socialism or death I swear it." He also alluded to Jesus: "I swear by Christ the greatest socialist in history."
In a speech, he said the central aim of his term will be "to build Venezuelan socialism."
"I don't have the slightest doubt that is the only path to the redemption of our peoples, the salvation of our fatherland," Chavez told lawmakers to applause.
Chavez's re election capped a series of Latin American presidential votes, and his closest ideological allies were gathering Wednesday in Managua. Also on Ortega's guest list were Ecuador's Rafael Correa and Bolivia's Evo Morales. Acting Cuban leader Raul Castro sent a high level delegation.
Chavez said a commission is being assembled to consider constitutional reforms to be decided in a popular referendum, including one allowing "indefinite re election" by eliminating presidential term limits that bar him from running again in 2012.
"The important thing is that the people will make the decision, because nothing can be done without that here," Chavez said, dismissing criticism he is becoming authoritarian or trying to change Venezuela into something like Castro's Cuba.
Wow, the New Year quickly approached sooner then expected, although it's a opportunity for a fresh start! I am eager to get this started as soon as possible possibly because the past New Year has been a bit awkward. It has been some what hectic especially with this new transition in my life. I was watching the news and observed the Presidential address with the current issues. I couldn't believe that the President did announce his wrong doing in the war issue, but couldn't believe that he wanted more money for the war! He did declare that money for the war will help the terrorist attack on America. I just don't believe that more money for this war will provide justice to anyone! I don't believe that more troops (people) will benefit anyone nor do I agree with all the efforts that the president is offering for this war! The president does not understand that this financial burden will only affect the American citizens now and in the near future! Will we have social security benefits in the future? NO! Because the president will have used up all these benefits for this so called war! The children in America will have to be the ones who suffer! Education, health, these conditions are jeopardized because programs that offer assistance for families are taking a percenatage cut! We as Americans, are mandated by law to have insurance on our vehicles yet most our children don't have health insurance! We as Americans pay taxes yet that tax money is used for this war. This war does not benefit the Americans or it's programs! What this war is doing is help the president gain economical stability for his company HALBURTON!
Barack H. Obama has been in the spotlight with his recent movements toward candidacy for the Democratic Presidential Nomination. What I have not heard much about from the mainstream media is Obama s controversial middle name Hussein. So what? It s just a name and it has no connection to the recently executed dictator or to Islam or to anything else un American. But a name still carries connotations in the minds of the people. This is unfortunate, but it is nonetheless a true statement. I do think it is a low blow for Republican foes to attempt any connection between the middle name and associations with other (former or present) enemies of state. But, it is a terribly unfortunate coincidence that may prevent Obama from gaining the Democratic ticket. Could you ever imagine a U.S. President elected to office with a name like Harry Hitler Truman or even John Castro Kennedy? You see, the timing is all wrong. It is just not a good time for Barack.
Well, never mind his middle name. What about his first and last name. U.S. Presidents generally have been men with a lineage and heritage coming from the Aryan, Northern European stock. It would be extreme enough to elect a president with a Hispanic or Latin based name. We have never even arrived at the point of putting a Farraro near the White House, although a Mediterranean Greek once took the Vice Presidency (Agnew). I think Obama s chances as a half African would be much greater with a name like Powell, Rice, King or even, dare I say, Jackson. I believe there is more to someone than their name, but I will be greatly surprised if America is ready for this.
I'm sure there are a few people out there who are like "I wonder what the heck Sarah Mayberry is up to." Well Ladies and Gentlemen, today is your lucky day. I will update you on the most important parts what is going on with me.
1) I am dating the most amazing guy ever Kenny Chapman. We have been ring shopping and will probably tie the knot sometime in the next six to twelve months.
2) I graduated from Drake University in December with a 3.49 grade point average majoring in law, politics and society and political science.
3) I am a lobbying intern for the Iowa Motor Truck Association at the state capital. My job is absolutely amazing and I hope one day to be a member of my own MOD squad (Mercants of Death).
4) I no longer live in the University Place Lofts. Now I am in an apartment complex near the airport. It is a nice and cozy little place, plus it is significantly cheaper than my old apartment.
5) I am on the hunt for a full time job to jump into once I am done with my internship. My hope is to jump on a presidential campaign, but who knows where life will take me.
Tancredo Labels Border Patrol Imprisonment an Injustice
(WASHINGTON, DC) Representative Tom Tancredo (R CO) today said on the former Border Patrol agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Alonso Compean reporting to prison to serve their 23 combined years in prison for shooting Mexican drug smuggler Osvaldo Aldrete Davila in the buttocks.
If I were in the Oval Office, this travesty would not be taking place, said Tancredo, Chairman of the Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus. Instead, it would be Osvaldo Aldrete Davila serving time for repeatedly smuggling drugs into the United States and violating our border laws.
Ramos and Compean reported to prison today at 3 p.m. EST after Judge Cardone denied the agent s request to remain free during the appeals process. Ramos was sentenced to 11 years, while Compean was sentenced to 12 years in prison.
Tancredo concluded, The current administration allowed the use of their resources to track down a drug dealer living in Mexico to testify against our own Border Patrol agents. This injustice should have been stopped well before a presidential pardon was being demanded.
Just for giggles and grins I put December 17th (my birthday) in the search box of the wikipedia. I picked a few items from each category that came up as follows:
Contents 1 Events 2 Births 3 Deaths 4 Holidays and observances 5 External links Events:
1577 Francis Drake set sail from Plymouth, England, on a secret mission to explore the Pacific Coast of the Americas for British Queen Elizabeth I.
1903 The Wright Brothers made their first powered and heavier than air flight in the Wright Flyer at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina .
1935 First flight of the Douglas DC 3 airplane
1944 World War II: Battle of the Bulge Malmedy massacre American 285th Field Artillery Observation Battalion POWs are shot by Waffen SS Kampfgruppe Peiper .
1961 History of Goa : Operation Vijay India seizes Goa from Portugal .
1969 Project Blue Book : The USAF closes its study of UFOs , stating that sightings were generated as a result of 'A mild form of mass hysteria, Individuals who fabricate such reports to perpetrate a hoax or seek publicity, Psychopathological persons, and Misidentification of various conventional objects'. (my personal favorite)
1996 Six Red Cross workers are killed in their hospital beds 11 miles from Grozny , the capital of Chechnya .
2003 SpaceShipOne flight 11P , piloted by Brian Binnie , makes the first privately funded manned supersonic flight. Births:
1770 ( Baptism ) Ludwig van Beethoven , German composer (d. 1827 )
1807 John Greenleaf Whittier , American poet and abolitionist (d. 1892 )
1873 Ford Madox Ford , British writer (d. 1939 )
1894 Arthur Fiedler , American conductor (d. 1979 )
1900 Mary Cartwright , English mathematician (d. 1998 )
1920 Kenneth E. Iverson , Canadian computer scientist
1930 Bob Guccione , American magazine publisher, Bob Mathias , American decathlete and congressman (d. 2006 )
1953 Bill Pullman , American actor
1966 Tracy Byrd country musician
1972 Laurie Holden , American actress
1975 Milla Jovovich , Ukrainian born actress Deaths:
1962 Thomas Mitchell , American actor (b. 1892 )
1978 Don Ellis , American jazz band leader (b. 1934 )
1999 Grover Washington, Jr. , American saxophonist (b. 1943 ) Holidays and observances:
Roman festivals Saturnalia , in honor of Saturn , began.
Greek Orthodox Church Saint Barbaras day Feast of Daniel the Prophet
USA Wright Brothers Day (by Presidential Proclamation) External links:
BBC: On This Day
The New York Times : On This Day
On This Day in Canada
Coming up in my next posts "February 30th" and "Bushisms".
Casu Consulto,
Rocket
The New York Times: DealBook TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES Friday, January 19, 2007
M A: Morgan Stanley Spends 6.6 Billion for CNL Hotels
INVESTMENT BANKING: Wall Street Is Betting on the Farm
I.P.O.S OFFERINGS: Firms Band Together for Emissions Market
VENTURE CAPITAL: How China Is Going Green
PRIVATE EQUITY: As Fund Grows, Providence Cuts Fees
LEGAL: Dunn and Others Offered Pleas in Hewlett Packard Case
HEDGE FUNDS: From Ethics Overseer to Hedge Fund Boss
Visit the DealBook Web site for updates throughout the day. E mail Preferences Advertising Opportunities Help
Citigroup said on Friday that fourth quarter profit fell from a year earlier, when it took a one time gain, although the company benefited from growth in investment banking.
Net income for the New York based company fell to 5.13 billion from 6.93 billion a year earlier, when Citigroup recorded a 2.1 billion gain from selling its asset management business.
Go to Article from Reuters via The New York Times
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
Advertisement
Morgan Stanley , the biggest real estate investor among Wall Street firms, agreed to buy CNL Hotels Resorts , adding eight luxury hotels and resorts throughout the U.S. in a transaction worth 6.6
billion.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
In a bid to salvage its stake in the family friendly TV network formerly known as Paxson Communications , NBC Universal has found a buyer willing to pony up about 70.5 million to help it take the ailing company private Citadel Investment Group
Go to Article from The New York Post
Shares of Vinci , the world's biggest construction company, rose to a record after activist investor Francois
Pinault bought a 1 billion euro ( 1.3 billion) stake, prompting speculation he may seek to acquire the company.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
Dampening the hopes of some investors, analysts, and potential bidders The New York Times Company seems to be in no hurry to sell The Boston Globe.
Go to Article from The Boston Globe
Royal Dutch Shell is dangling the prospect of a 15 percent plus bump in its offer to buy oil patch subsidiary
Shell Canada for C 7.7 billion ( 6.6 billion), if minority shareholders agree to support its takeover bid, The Globe and Mail reported.
Go to Article from The Globe and Mail
When members of Tribune board assemble this weekend to review bids for the company, they will have a lot to consider but not much to be happy about.
Go to Article from The New York Times
General Electric will buy Abbott 's laboratory diagnostics business for 8.13 billion in cash, the two companies announced Thursday afternoon.
Go to Abbott Press Release via PR Newswire
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
Go to Previous Item on DealBook
Shortly after the rejection of their 8.9 billion second offer for Cablevision , the cable company's ruling Dolan family might be looking to John Malone for some solace, The New York Post reports.
Go to Article from The New York Post
Go to Previous Item on DealBook
Wall Street commodity funds that have been investing heavily in energy futures are now loading up on agricultural commodities like corn and livestock futures.
Go to Article from The New York Times
After their record setting year in 2006, traders would seem unlikely to need coddling and reassurance that they are special. But Doubledown Media , publisher of Trader Monthly, was there to save them, hosting its first annual Trader Monthly Awards Reception at the Mercedes Benz showroom in midtown Manhattan. DealBook sets the scene.
Go to Item on DealBook
After pulling in record breaking profits for 2006, J.P. Morgan Chase 's chief executive wants to celebrate with a shopping spree. "If something comes up, we're prepared at this point to take a look," Jamie Dimon said on Wednesday.
Go to Article from Forbes
Go to Previous Item on DealBook
After the announcements of the twin 400 million naming rights deals inked by British bank Barclays , for the Nets new arena, and Citigroup , for the Mets new stadium, the Jets and the Giants
must be salivating as they look over the next year to sell the naming rights to their 1.2 billion stadium in the Meadowlands.
Go to Article from The New York Times
The Bank of New York Company , one of the nation's largest trust banks, reported an increase in fourth quarter earnings yesterday on strength in its corporate trust business, depositary receipts and global custody services.
Go to Article from The
Associated Press via The New York Times
Ten major companies, including industrial giants like General Electric , DuPont and Alcoa , have banded together with leading environmental groups to call for a nationwide limit on
carbon dioxide emissions and to create a market in which allowances to emit carbon dioxide could be traded in a way that achieves the greatest reduction at the lowest cost.
Go to Article from The New York Times
Go to Previous Item on DealBook
On the vanguard of venture capital, the buzzwords of late have been "alternative energy" and "China." Are the two worlds about to collide?
Go to Article from The New York Times
The Sarbanes Oxley Act might be meant to guard against massive white collar scandals, but the resignation of a high profile tech veteran suggests the law may also be restricting efficiency atop Silicon Valley's corporate ladder, CNet News.com suggests.
Go to Article from CNet
News.com
Go to Previous Item on DealBook
Providence Equity Partners is looking to triple its fund size, and, in doing so, has
agreed to cut its carried interest, or percentage of the fund's profits, to 20 percent from 25 percent, according to press reports.
Go to Article from The Deal.com
Mace Security International , which owns a chain of car washes and makes the namesake pepper spray, has received an unsolicited 45.8 million buyout bid from Kelly Capital Management , a California based private equity firm.
Go to Article from The Philadelphia Inquirer
The bidding for the roofing products
maker ElkCorp heated up yesterday, with the Building Materials Corporation of America raising its bid to 865.2 million, topping a 834 million offer by a private equity firm, the Carlyle Group .
Go to Article from Reuters via The New York Times
The California attorney general's office has offered plea bargains to former Hewlett Packard Chairwoman Patricia Dunn and four other defendants, offering them the chance to accept a misdemeanor charge each for their role in H.P.'s spying scandal, The San Jose Mercury News reported Thursday.
Go to Article from the San Jose Mercury News
It's goodbye Gulfstream, hello Airbus for Mark Fields at the Ford Motor Company .
Go to Article from The New York Times
A special committee of the New York State Bar Association is calling on law firms to end the practice of mandatory retirement for partners.
Go to Article from The New York Times
A lawsuit filed by former New York Stock Exchange seatholders against the exchange has gotten some backing, The New York Post reported Thursday. Two seatholders accuse John Thain, the NYSE Group's chief executive, of falsely denying in February of 2005 that the exchange was considering a merger or public offering.
Go to Article from The New York Post
The leap into hedge funds by Richard C. Breeden, the former Securities and Exchange Commission chief and a monitor of some of the nation's most wayward companies, is making waves.
Go to Article from The New York Times
Joseph Biden has more than a passing familiarity with hedge funds. As a Democratic senator and a longtime member of that body's judiciary committee, the Delaware native participated in hearings last year on issues ranging from regulation to naked short selling. But the presidential candidate has another, more personal connection to those widely known, lightly regulated investment pools as well.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
Two studies show that hedge funds fell out of favor with investors in 2006. But is that really the case?
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
Go to Spectrem Group Press Release via PR Newswire
Dealboard
Tool Resources
GET QUOTES
by Name or Symbol:
Look Up Symbol
Join the Discussion
Share your thoughts about today's Dealbook news in the readers' forum.
Research Suite
Portfolio
Company Research
U.S. Markets
International Markets
Mutual Funds
Send a Tip or Feedback
E mail us at
dealbook nytimes.com
COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
News Features
Property Listings
Sales
Leases
Search by Keyword:
List Your Property
Property E Mail Alerts
Building Photo Guide
Click here to
Receive 50 off
of Home Delivery of The New York Times Newspaper.
Copyright
2007 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy
8:00? 8:25? 8:40? Find a flick in no time
with the Yahoo! Search movie showtime shortcut.
Quote
Clinton launches presidential bid Politics MSNBC.com
Oh my...here we go again. The wife of an impeached president, who considered all the charges against Willy coming from a "vast right winged conspiracy" is up to no good again! For political reasons she let the status quo exist, that is her husband's adulterous exploits, just to stay in power herself. What can we really expect from a left winged extremist elitist who held secret meetings with White House staffers to affect national healthcare? Don't be misled. She is a power hungry megalomaniac, just like her husband.
Quote Well what do you all think? This little fireside chat sounded good. I'm just trying to figure out what she's going to do with Bill. We all make alot of mistakes along the way and I am sure he helped to get her up where she is by being the alpha male but she actually did the ground work. I just don't know...convence me! I really like one of the other choices so far...and it's not Bush though I say I'm Republican. Oh is it hard to be Republican in the Mental Health field!
Hillary Clinton launches 2008 presidential bid
Jan. 20: Sen. Hillary Clinton launched her 2008 presidential bid with a video announcement on her Web site.
Quote
Clinton launches presidential bid Politics MSNBC.com
Quote
Hillary Clinton launches 2008 presidential bid
Jan. 20: Sen. Hillary Clinton launched her 2008 presidential bid with a video announcement on her Web site.
Senator Barack Obama jumped in earlier this week. Senator John Edwards a few weeks prior. Today , Senator Hillary Clinton is in. And for the first time in my voting life, the Democratic Party has even ONE viable presidential candidate, to say nothing of THREE. A lot is going to happen in the next 22 months, and all we can hope is that the Democratic Party elevates the political discourse in this country.
I'm personally still an Edwards guy (he was my candidate in 2004 as well), but Senators Clinton and Obama certainly don't give me pause. I'll be proud to vote Democrat, regardless.
BTW, what exactly is this "exploratory committee" nonsense? The WashPo has the answer .
2 years, 45 minutes until regime change in America.
Quote
Clinton's Web strategy
Jan. 20: NBC's Mike Taibbi discusses how Sen. Hillary Clinton announced that she is forming an exploratory committee for the 2008 presidential race.
Saturday, January 20, 2007
Compiled 2 AM E.T. In This E Mail:
World U.S. Washington Business Technology
Sports Arts New York Region Travel Editorials Op Ed
Customize Today's Headlines Search
TOP STORIES
Advertisement
Draft Law Keeps Central Control Over Oil in Iraq
By JAMES GLANZ
The law would distribute all oil revenues through the federal government and grant Baghdad wide powers.
Senate Measure Puts Spotlight on Fund Raising
By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK
The measure would require lobbyists to disclose money they raise from clients and friends and deliver as sheaves of checks.
NEWS ANALYSIS
China Shows Assertiveness in Weapons Test
By JOSEPH KAHN
China s success in destroying one of its own orbiting satellites signals its intention to contest U.S. supremacy in space.
NYTimes.com Homepage
Back to Top
QUOTATION OF THE DAY
"A bullet was fired at freedom of thought and democratic life in Turkey. Once again, dark hands have chosen our country and spilled blood in Istanbul to achieve their dark goals."
RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN, Turkey s prime minister, on the killing of an outspoken newspaper editor.
TRAVEL
Audio Slide Show: Portrait of Kabul
The photographer Max Becherer discusses his experience as a tourist and observer in Kabul, Afghanistan.
Related Article
David Beckham, Football Ambassador
A self made man, an image merchant, a constant reinventor of himself, Becks is American to the core, writes Roger Cohen.
WORLD
Armenian Editor Is Slain in Turkey
By
SEBNEM ARSU
Hrant Dink, who was convicted last year of insulting the Turkish state, was assassinated outside his office.
Leading Senator Assails President Over Iran Stance
By MARK MAZZETTI
Senator John D. Rockefeller IV said that the White House portrayal of Iran was reminiscent of rhetoric about Iraq.
Mexico
Extradites Alleged Gulf Cartel Leader to U.S.
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
It was a sign that the nation's new president will deliver on his promise for more cooperation in fighting cross border crime.
More World News
Back to Top
U.S.
VERMONT JOURNAL
Warm Days and Hard Times in Snowmobile Land
By KATIE ZEZIMA
Snowmobile clubs and the businesses that cater to them are having their second bad year in a row in many parts of New England.
Student Slain in School Hall; A Classmate Is Held in Jail
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
A classmate of the murdered student in Framingham, Mass., was charged with murder after blurting out, I did it, I did it! the authorities said.
Bush Comments on Agents Who Shot Suspected Drug Dealer
By RACHEL L. SWARNS
The case has become something of a cause among some advocates for tougher border security, who argue that the agents should be pardoned for shooting a suspected Mexican drug dealer.
More U.S. News
Back to Top
WASHINGTON
nytimes.com theater
Tony Danza now stars in "The Producers." What does our critic think?
Also in Theater:
All about ego, showbiz and a little black dress Echoes of grief and loss, modulated by humor Sex and rock? What would the Kaiser think?
Leading Senator Assails President Over Iran Stance
By MARK MAZZETTI
Senator John D. Rockefeller IV said that the White House portrayal of Iran was reminiscent of rhetoric about Iraq.
Ney Is Sentenced to 2 Years in Abramoff Case
By PHILIP SHENON
Representative Bob Ney apologized to his family and his former constituents and suggested that his crimes had resulted in part from alcoholism.
Senators to Offer Centrist
Proposal on Iraq
By CARL HULSE and JEFF ZELENY
The proposal on Iraq policy is an effort to provide an outlet for lawmakers uneasy with an increase in troops but unwilling to back a toughly worded resolution opposing the new strategy.
More Washington News
Back to Top
BUSINESS
Trade Deficit Stubbornly Defies the Dollar s Slide
By EDUARDO PORTER and MARK LANDLER
Although the dollar has lost a lot of ground, the nation s trade imbalance with the world has continued to rise.
YOUR MONEY
Don t Call. Don t Write. Let Me Be.
By DAMON DARLIN
How to get your name off lists, so sales people won t call, junk mail won t come, and spam won t clog the in box.
States Study Marketing of Lilly Pill
By ALEX BERENSON
State prosecutors have demanded Eli Lilly turn over information about the way it promoted the drug Zyprexa.
More Business News
Back to Top
TECHNOLOGY
Madison Avenue Calling
By LOUISE STORY
Cellphone subscribers could start to lower their bills by watching advertising on their mobile
phones.
YOUR MONEY
Don t Call. Don t Write. Let Me Be.
By DAMON DARLIN
How to get your name off lists, so sales people won t call, junk mail won t come, and spam won t clog the in box.
SATURDAY INTERVIEW
Blockbuster Marries Stores to Internet
By JUSTON JONES
John F. Antioco, chairman and chief executive of Blockbuster, spoke about the challenge from Netflix and the shifting marketplace.
More Technology News
Back to Top
SPORTS
A Colossus Blocks the Colts Path to a Title
By JUDY BATTISTA
The Patriots seem to have a special hold on the Colts and
quarterback Peyton Manning, who has thrown one touchdown and five interceptions against the Patriots in the playoffs.
NETS 101, KNICKS 100
Nets Grab the Victory and First Place
By HOWARD BECK
David Lee s layup gave the Knicks a 100 99 lead with 9.7 seconds left. But Clifford Robinson s putback of a Vince Carter miss with 2.8 seconds left gave the Nets a victory.
AUSTRALIAN OPEN
With His Game on the Rise, Roddick Roars Past Safin
By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY
The match between Andy Roddick and Marat Safin was a fine antidote to jet lag. When all the big swings emotional and otherwise had been completed, Roddick was in the fourth round.
More Sports News
Back to Top
ARTS
Denny Doherty, 66, Mamas and Papas Singer, Dies
By BEN SISARIO
Denny Doherty was a founding member of the 1960s folk pop band the Mamas and the Papas.
THEATER
Comfort Food Is in at London Theater Buffet
By BEN BRANTLEY
The Sound of Music draws long lines amid a glut of American musicals.
MUSIC REVIEW NEW YORK
PHILHARMONIC RICCARDO MUTI
Muti Takes the Reins, a Classicist at His Core
By ANTHONY TOMMASINI
The conductor Riccardo Muti, concerned above all else with textural clarity, sonority and structure, brought Tchaikovsky s Violin Concerto to Avery Fisher Hall on Thursday night.
More Arts
News
Back to Top
NEW YORK REGION
Class Divide in
Chinese Americans Charity
By NINA BERNSTEIN
Rich Chinese Americans are more likely to donate to mainstream institutions than to the poor, nonprofits say.
21 Parishes Face Shutdown in New York
By MICHAEL LUO
The closures are part of a sweeping reorganization process that began several years ago and distressed thousands of parishioners.
New Favor for a Name That Straddles Cultures
By SAM ROBERTS
For the first time in a generation, an ethnic name is most popular for newborn Hispanic boys in New York City.
More New York Region News
Back to Top
TRAVEL
The Mysteries of Kabul
By JOSHUA HAMMER
Its days as a popular stop for backpackers making their way along the fabled Hippie Trail are long gone, but the war ravaged Afghan capital is beginning to attract a new generation of travelers.
FRUGAL TRAVELER
In Shanghai, Balancing the Past, the Future and a Budget
By MATT GROSS
The Frugal Traveler spends a yuan conscious weekend in Shanghai, exploring the past and the future in a city that seems
to have no now.
NEXT STOP
Athens: Take One Forlorn Ancient District, Add Chic and Stir
By JOANNA KAKISSIS
Once bedraggled central Athens neighborhoods including the districts of Gazi, Metaxourgeio, Kerameikos and Rouf have become an incubator of progressive arts and night life.
More Travel News
Back to Top
EDITORIALS
China s Muscle Flex in Space
The way to counter China or any other potentially belligerent space power is through an arms control treaty, not a new arms race in space.
Reform, Finally, in the Senate
An overwhelming majority approved the first serious anticorruption strictures since the Watergate era.
A Product of the U.N. System
The indictment of Benon Sevan on federal corruption charges stemming from the Iraqi oil for food program points to a continuing problem in the U.N. appointments system.
APPRECIATIONS
Post
By VERLYN KLINKENBORG
Even as prefixes go, post is unusually adaptable.
More Editorials
Back to Top
OP ED
OP ED COLUMNIST
The Ballad of Bushie and Flashy
By MAUREEN DOWD
George Bush may have lost his swagger, but Harry Flashman hasn t.
GUEST COLUMNIST
Sex and the Single Minded
By STACY SCHIFF
How to get a job in Washington: Direct an organization that
opposes contraception on the grounds that it is demeaning to women.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
Archives of Spin
By BENJAMIN HUFBAUER
If we give in to the worst impulses of presidents and their supporters, presidential libraries risk becoming temples of political propaganda.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
The Biggest Man on Campus
By JAMES F. HOLLIFIELD
Southern Methodist University should accept the George W. Bush presidential library.
Go to Editorials Op Ed
Back to Top
ON THIS DAY
On Jan. 20, 1981, Iran released 52 Americans held hostage for 444 days, minutes after the presidency had passed from Jimmy Carter to Ronald Reagan. See this front page
Buy this front page
Back to Top
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy
Any questions? Get answers on any topic at Yahoo! Answers . Try it now.
Sorry for not posting for so long. As my personal friends know I have been working my tail off. With the overwhelming number of politicans throwing their hat in the 2008 Presidential Race it makes you wonder who to choose. With the usual name calling and mud slinging that will happen in the political version of the Royal Rumble (now you know why lions eat their young, they're just like campaigning politicans) it makes you wonder will the party proud change the status quo or look for more of the same BS we have been getting out of the White House Communications Department.
So I am going to give my personal analyisis of the current field of Presidential hopefuls. Now as I already know this is my personal opinion (which garners most peoples hatred towards me) so please be kind and keep the daggars in the sheath.
Democrats
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton A true "powerhouse" politcally and monetary. With her announcement of her Exploratory Committee she has generate excitement within the Democratic Party. Senator Clinton has a strong following with the Working Families Party and Labor Unions. Among those a lot of loyal followers of Former President William "Bill" Jefferson Clinton that are ready for battle. That is an advantage that I believe no other candidate can say they have. However, with the numerous strong points there are some hurdles she will have to overcome. The views of her in the Bible Belt (South East) is not great go figure, the scandal with Ms. Lewinski resulting in an Impeachment Trial of her husband President Clinton, her view by some as a "carpetbagger," and other issues. I believe that Senator Clinton will be a strong contender and overcome these obstacles providing that she find the "right" Senior Camapign Staff. Hopefully here virtual townhalls (Jan 22 24, 2007) will give the Campaign the ideas and views that will help her execute a strong and effective Presidential run in 2008.
Senator Barack Obama A young (comparible to the rest of the field) and idealistic Senator. A well spoken individual with charisma and class, but maybe not enough experience under his belt. Look what happened when America elected (via the Electoral College) a certain Governor from Texas in 2000 and re elected in 2004 (damn were dumb). With that being said Senator Obama has a lot going for him. He seems to soak up the media attention and uses it well. He carries himself as an executive well tempered and measured in his demeaner and responses to the media. But, his lack of experience in the Federal Process and national campaigns and politics could be his achilies heel. Another problem for him will be raising money. He doesn't have the "swagger" that a Senator Clinton or Senator McCain has raising money. He has to prepare for the long haul if he stays in the race. Create a Campaign that has a strong Senior Staff (experienced Campaign Professionals), keep a daily fundraising schedule, and do some Town Halls (get the "feel" for the people). Speeches are one thing human interaction is a whole other ball game. This man has a great deal to offer, but unfortunately little experence, and a hadicapped ability to raise serious money (in my view) makes this an uphill battle for him. He has the will and the strength, but I don't believe at this point it is the "right" time. Would be a serious candidate for Vice President or a Cabinet Level Position.
John Edwards The Vice Presidential running mate in 2004 for Senator John Kerry has returned. Edwards has proven that he was ready in 2004 for a Long haul campaign. He has also proven that he can raise money , rally the faithful campaigner's to field, and get out there keep his voice heard. With his press releases and he clear commanding tone in issues that he feels effect Americans the most gives me the impression that he is ready to take the fight to the White House. Edwards has a soft spoken professional side, but also has a powerful commanding presence when it is needed. Of course Edwards has a lot of good ideas, but maybe cursed by the association of the 2004 failure. Could John Edwards be the Pheonix that will rise from the ashes or be doomed by the past? In my view John Edwards is a strong contender. Experience, driven to help America move forward, and his persona of a common American in Professional Politics will give him a shot at the nomination. This 2008 campaign for John Edwards will be exciting to watch.
Tom Vilsack Former Governor of Iowa is running for President? He is not know except in Iowa, but seems to be raising money. With all that aside no real experience with national issues and can't raise the kind of money to keep a Presidential Campaign going in my view.
Senator Christopher Dodd A experienced Congressional Official in both the House of Representatives and Senate is seeking the Democratic Nomination for the 2008 Presidential Election. Serving on numerous Senate Committees including the Foreign Relations, HELP (Health, Education, Labor and Pensions), Rules and Administration Committees think would give him a bit of an edge. He presents himself as a strong and influenctial. However he is not very well known and I don't know if he can raise enough money to contend with the "power players" in the race. Don't count this person out yet he may surprise you the election cycle is still young.
Senator Joseph "Joe" Biden A well known Senator has announced his intentions about running for President. Senator Biden serves on the Foreign Relations and Judiciary Committees and is a very passionate debater. The Senator has some national recognition due to the Iraq hearings and was very vocal about his disgust with the Nomination of Samuel Alito for the Supreme Court. He isn't affraid to speak his mind, but that can come back to bite him politically. Has good qualities but I don't know about his chances for President. I can see him as a Vice President or Cabinet Official, but I still have not been swayed to see him as President. I maybe wrong, but only time will tell.
Senator John Kerry The Democratic Nominee for President in 2004. Senator John Kerry launched a campaign that came up a little short in the last Presidential Election Cycle. He is also been plagued with Comminucations nightmares as well since. Comparing lack of education to being stuck in Iraq was a really political snaffu. If he is going to run for President he has a series of issues to overcome. It maybe too much to deal with politically but can be done. The Senator has to climb Mount Everest to at least have a chance. It maybe time I'm sorry to say to pass the torch to the next Nominee. But if he plays his cards "right" he may have a little chance. But, it isn't looking good at this point.
And to all the others not mentioned....why the hell are you running? Dear god stop fleecing these poor innnocent Americans for their money. Some of these guys can only raise money if they rob an Ice Cream Shop in February for crying out loud. Please help a guy out and quit while you're ahead.
And now for the:
Republicans
Senator John McCain A Moderate Republican Senator from Arizona with some national campaign experience is running again. Serving on the Armed Services Committee does give him some points. But his real weapon is his military experience and his ability to raise serious amounts of money. Truely a Republican force to be reckoned with. Trying to get support from the Conservatives in his party McCain is building momentum toward the Republican National Convention. A really hard camapign to beat in Republican circles. Name Face value in the national media, experience with military and foreign relations, and can raise some serious dollars, this maybe the Republican nominee.
Rudy Giuliani Former Mayor of New York City and former US Attorney is looking to take residence at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. Labeled America's Mayor from the attacks on September 11, 2001. Has legal experience, experience with a fairly large enitiy (the New York City Government), and has national recognition as the Mayor of New York City. He is rumored to have the ability to raise enough money to sustain a Presidential Campaign. With the impressive response from his Office on September 11, 2001 and a ability to raise sufficient funds to keep a campaign going he has some room to work with. If he can lock himself in with a diehard staff of poltical operatives with extensive national campaign experience he may have a chance. This Republican National Convention will be very interesting to see with McCain and Giuliani in the same room.
Senator Sam Brownback The Senator from Kansas is looking for your support for President. A Social Conservative from the Midwest has served in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. He sits on the Senate Appropriations and Judiciary Committees which gives him a the "power of the purse." But the Senator is not well know and don't know if he can raise any money. In my opinion he will not last very long with McCain and Giuliani in the race he would have to pull off a miracle to make any headway.
Newt Gingrich The Former Speaker of the House is trying to reach his goal to be President. He has experience with the Federal Government. However, if I remember correctly (please correct me if I'm wrong) but wasn't this man plagued by a scandal while serving as Speaker of the House? If he seriously runs he has a lot of work to do. He needs to restore his credibilty and flex his political strength to start debates about the issues. I don't think money would be an issue, but may have a hard time winning the nomination. Maybe a good choice for a cabinet position in an Republican Administration.
Mitt Romney Former Governor of Massachusetts is asking the American Public for a promotion to President. He has done some good for the people of Massachusetts on issues involving Healthcare, Education, and some other issues. Romney seems very conservative to a "President Bush Level." I feel that if he runs on this kind of level he'll be lumped into the Bush league Republicans. With a lack of Federal Experience and his very conservative views I think he is running head on into a hurricane so to speak. Even if he raises enough money, if doesn't break away from the Ultra Conservative Bush league Republicans I feel he is doomed to failure.
And to the rest of you Republicans I ask you to re read my plea to the rest of the Democrats. Please help a person reduce his asprin and antacid use and leave the arena with some dignity. Thank you.
Now, that I said what I have to say please feel free to send me your thoughts and please remember this is my opinion. So please be kind (as possible) god only knows that if you have an opinion you might end up with a reservation at the Gitmo Resort and Spa in Cuba. Thank you for your tolerance.
The Democratic and Republican candidates for the 2008 election are lining up, getting their websites ready, drawing up policy statements, determining what issues they will campaign on. Those choices will ultimately separate them from the herd, bringing them to victory or failure. In my opinion, there is 1 priority that all candidates must consider and put in their top 3 priorities of their administrations:
The US must develop alteranative fuel sources to fossil fuels.
Yes, we have crime, social issues, education, health care, etc. But, if we want to truly change our society, our world, and create a massive impact on the war against terrorism, we must separate ourselves from our reliance on fossil fuels. What I propose will have gigantic ramifications throughout the nation and our economy, affecting small businesses, large industries, and thousands of employees. In the long run, those industries and those people will have to adjust to this new world, and adjust they can.
The Middle East, with all its dedication, energy, and in some cases fanaticism, has a massive stranglehold on the rest of the world, particularly the United States. That of course is their ability to easily provide the massive quanities of fossil fuels required to keep our countries operating. But imagine for a moment, a United States that didn't need gas stations. No longer are we subject to the whims of corporate entities in the Middle East who can decide one day to decrease oil production and drive up gas prices. Imagine instead all our gas stations operating convenient stores with water pumps out front. That's right, water.
Hydrogen cells are the power source of the future. Hydrogen cells can provide the energy output needed to run cars, buildings, perhaps even entire communities. They are environmentally friendly, producing no waste products, only oxygen, which last time I checked we still need to survive more than universal health care. Plus, they run on the one element that is most abundant throughout the entire world ... water.
I don't understand why fuel companies or car manufacturers or private universities aren't spending millions or billions of dollars to develop hydrogen cell technology. The first company who does will be able to provide for their great great great grandchildren. They will revoluntize the world, impacting economies and the environment in so many positive ways. Yes, there will be a transition period where gas stations will close, employees at oil refineries will have to find new work. But look at all the good that will come of it. The money the terrorists used to finance 9 11 had to come in some part from the money that we send to the Middle East to provide for our fossil fuels. When that money well dries up, where will they be?
Presidential candidates on both sides, voters, electorates, everyone ... I implore you. Don't let the 2008 election be all about Iraq. Don't let it be about abortion or crime or education or health care or even just a simple character debate. We have the opportunity to change the world within the next 10 years if the federal government leads the way. And a new President can do that. We must end our reliance on fossil fuels to save our nation, reduce the stranglehold of Middle Eastern countries on our economy, and strike a blow to the terrorists who we are still at war with. And we can do it so easily if we simply dedicate ourselves to it.
Well I haven't updated this page since early Nov. so here's some pics from what I did during Winter Break. The biggest thing was probably the trip Danielle and I took. We flew down to St. Louis to meet my Uncle Bill to bring a car back to the U.P. It was a good time and I would defiantly like to go back down there, especially to the Lincoln Presidential Library, that is a really cool place that I recommend to everyone. Anyways I'm hoping to add some more pics soon, I'll try to keep it updated on a more regular basis.
While looking back at previous posts, I discovered an unusual post on the ABC News "Blotter" that was NOT mine. The first post was the one I made, in response to a New York Times reporter's problem in Pakistan. She had intentions of interviewing a top Taliban warlord in the northwest region where Bin Laden is assumed to be, but accused Pakistani agents of harrassing and assault.
The New York Times reporter told ABC News that Pakistani government agents busted down her hotel room door and ruffed her up, since she refused to answer the door to begin with, stating to them in essence...that they had no right to do that, and "journalists do not have borders," or something to that effect.
I wish not to violate ABC's copyrights by posting the exact comments by the reporter, but wish to point out the fact that ABC News "Blotter" blatantly allowed and or entered an additional post with my name attached to it. The post suggests that I am "clueless" as to why the Bush Administration would want democracy in the Middle East . "Lightening raids" followed by "withdrawal" of our troops, was incorrectly posted by someone other than me.
The additional post should be a wake up call for what is happening in our country; the paranoia by the liberal media, and the under handed methods for manipulating public opinion. That is why the Pelosi machine wants to "judge content" by passing legislation to benefit the democratic party, while deminishing our freedom of speech by regulating grass root organizations and bloggers. Obviously, the Secular Progressives are desparate for an 08' presidential election, or just over confident.
Dave Bertrand
ABC NEWS
NYT Reporter: I Was Assaulted by Pakistani Agents
December 26, 2006 12:56 PM
Gretchen Peters Reports:
Posted by: Dave Bertrand Dec 26, 2006 11:23:22 PM
What do you expect from the New York Times, an irresponsible example of free press out of control.
They don't need to send a reporter to interview the enemy, they have the enemy reporting to them!
(NOT POSTED BY ME)
Posted by: Dave Bertrand Dec 26, 2006 11:28:34 PM
I've no clue why Bush thinks he can establish democracies in any part of the muslim world.
The better option is to bring the troops home, pour all of that money into homeland security, and use lightning raids to continually and relentlessly hit our enemies and withdrawal.
I'm guessing in really life that the president is getting whisked out of DC on AF one with a fighter escort ASAP and not going to the bunker...
Wouldn't the EMP from the bomb knock all their electronics at CTU ?
Nice Chloe, remembering the dead and then busting out the 'reboot servers'...
How come they grounded air travel but haven't shut down travel around L.A. ?
So the guy who sold Fayed the weapons, is pissed they went off in his own 'backyard' ? But yet when offered twice the , we suddenly becomes friendly and helpfull ?
Big setback for the bad guys too... They lost their engineer and their tool to arm the other 4 suitcase nukes
Jack's phone still works... Isn't there EMP from this thing ?
If this bomb went off over 12 minutes ago, why is the mushroom cloud still going up. I'm not expert but that shouldn't be the case.
first commercial break
The warhawks in the military come out war like.
Nice rejection of Assad, Bill....
Fayed can get 4 suitcase nukes in the 6 months since Assas and Fayed split ? I'm not sure about this Assad guy... Our known terror groups spend years planning...
And the plot twist... Jack's dad has a communications tie to the Russian General who we are being lead to believe sold the suitcase nukes. So Jack's dad left suddenly yesterday and left his cell phone. Sounds like there is something ugly in the past between Jack and Dad.
Now we learn Jack's brother sold him out to the Chinese. This would be major plot twist number 2.
Not sure what I think of think of roughing up Al_Rezani while wiring him up.
Jack's brother's (Greg) wife is Eve from the last season or 2 of Melrose Place....
Interesting discussion about the presidential speech. Does he use the word 'Nuclear' ? Do we use 'fear' to get what we want ?
Darren (with his floozie and Maseratti) is getting the terrorists the hook up. If these suitcase nukes are going up 'today' do the terrorists only have something against L.A. ?
Commercial aside: What does Carmen Electra have to do with Taco Bell Burritos? Call me strange but the sarcastic brunette on the coach is better looking...
Give the good guys enough help and you can convert even Bill Buchanon
Is this a weird scene at Jack's brothers house. First, his brother gives him a hug which I assume was hidden wire check.
I wish I was TIVOing this because I would love to have known what was on Greg's monitor. Jack decks his brother and threatens him with torture.... (this would have to be plot twist 3).
We are ready for the speech to the nation. Is it just me or is this place far to calm considering what has happened ?
The president's speech tries to calm the nation and Jack tries to suffacate his one brother. Nice !
I thought it was a pretty interesting that they rigged up an office in the White House bunker that made it look like the president was giving the speech from an office with a view of the sunlight out of doors not deep underground.
commercial aside 2. I love the 6 meal, not flip the box around and it is a 9 meal commercial !
So next week's episode's tag line is 'Keep your enemies close, and your family even closer !'
This episode kinda dragged on at times, but that is to be expected after blowing up a Nuke to end the previous episode
The plot twists with Jack's family are quite a plot twist
Are we ever going to see season 5's eye candy(and Jack's love interest), Audry ?
Online Journal E Mail Center
January 23, 2007 2:17 a.m. EST
More Republicans Join Critics of Troop Surge
U.S.
Sen. John Warner, the top Armed Services panel Republican, broke ranks
with Bush ahead of the president's State of the Union speech, saying
more U.S. troops should not be put between warring Sunnis and Shiites. How would you rate the state of the union?
full story below
MARKETS LAST CHANGE
Dow Jones Industrials 12477.16 88.37
Nasdaq Composite 2431.07 20.24
Nikkei 225 17408.57 15.61
FTSE 100 6218.40 18.80
Stoxx 50 3757.00 24.45
Source: Reuters and Dow Jones At close Note: Closing quotes are preliminary
(Wall Street Journal Online subscription required)
UAW May Run Some Retiree Benefits
Detroit's
auto makers and the UAW are examining a plan that would shift to the
union responsibility for billions of dollars in retiree health care
liabilities. Push to Keep Chrysler Plant Open Faces Hurdles
President Faces Skeptical Public
Bush
has lost the nation's ear, a WSJ NBC News poll shows, leaving him with
little leeway to pursue major policy initiatives, especially on Iraq.
His approval rating is just 35 . ( Poll excerpts ) Graphic: Bush approval ratings in the polls
US Air's Offer for Delta Loses Ground
Delta
creditors have grown skeptical about a deal with US Airways. Meanwhile,
Delta and Northwest have held talks to explore a possible combination.
Pressler Resigns as Gap CEO
Gap announced that Paul Pressler is stepping down as president and CEO, following a disastrous holiday season for the retailer. Interactive Chart: Gap's Long Slump
Wal Mart to Drop Fabrics at Some Stores
Wal Mart
will stop selling fabric in some stores in favor of crafts and
party planning supplies, as it seeks to tailor merchandise to each
store's clientele.
Siemens Suspects Point to Finance Chief
Siemens's finance chief has known for years about an alleged bribe scheme, according to statements by two key suspects.
Philips Posts Surge in Net Profit
Philips
more than doubled its net profit, helped by a sale and a lower tax
rate, but the company's consumer electronics sales showed weakness. Video: Philips CEO Kleisterlee on earnings
Yahoo Ad System Move Causes Headaches
Some advertisers are complaining that moving existing accounts to Yahoo's upgraded search ad system is painful.
LG Electronics Posts 85 Drop in Net
LG
Electronics said its quarterly net profit fell 85 as falling prices of
its panels and flat screen TVs erased gains from the South Korean
home appliance maker's operations.
Boeing, Dell Slide; GM Rises on Hope
Boeing
shares were hurt by a downgrade and Pfizer slipped despite beating
earnings estimates and cutting 10,000 jobs, while Swift rose on a
buyout.
TOP STORY
More Republicans Join Critics
Of Bush Troop Surge Strategy
Warner Is Latest to Break
With White House Plan;
A Bipartisan Resolution
By DAVID ROGERS
WASHINGTON
Weighing into the Iraq debate, the Republican past chairman of the
Senate Armed Services Committee broke ranks with the White House over
sending 21,500 more U.S. troops to the war zone, especially for the
purpose of quelling sectarian violence in Baghdad.
"The American GI was not
trained, not sent over there, certainly not by resolution of this
institution, to be placed in the middle of a fight between the Sunni
and Shia and the wanton and just incomprehensible killing that's going
on at this time," said Sen. John Warner (R., Va.) "That's a mission
that's important...but it should be performed by the Iraqi forces and
not the coalition forces."
Mr. Warner's remarks
came as he and a handful of senators from both parties joined in
offering a nonbinding Senate resolution intended to give voice to
concerns about President Bush's policy. The tone is softer than a
companion proposal offered last week by leading Democrats and Sen.
Chuck Hagel (R., Neb.), but showed promise last night of sparking
negotiations on a compromise able to maximize support from both parties.
"This resolution is
aimed at broadening the support for the resolution dealing with the
president's plan," said Sen. Ben Nelson (D., Neb.), who joined with Mr.
Warner and Sen. Susan Collins (R., Maine) in drafting the resolution.
In an interview last evening, Mr. Hagel said that Sen. Warner had
allowed him to preview the language on Friday and found it to be, in
some instances, more detailed than his own in specifying what course
the administration should follow.
"The bottom line is this
is a pretty significant piece of legislation," Mr. Hagel said. "In no
way is this good news for the administration."
Senate Foreign Relations
Committee Chairman Joe Biden (D., Del.), a chief sponsor of the earlier
resolution with Sen. Hagel, has called a meeting tomorrow on the matter
and signaled a willingness to accept changes to broaden support.
"What's striking is that
the bottom line of both resolutions is the same: bipartisan opposition
to the president's plan to send more American troops to Iraq to fight a
civil war," said a Biden aide. "We're open to working with anybody and
working on language to get a broad majority behind our resolution."
Nonetheless, the
situation is complicated by the growing rivalry among would be
Democratic presidential candidates, including Mr. Biden himself. The
Delaware Democrat has to navigate through this thicket, and if the
various camps aren't careful, the whole debate could degenerate into
the sort of political word games and posturing that so often bring
ridicule on the Senate.
Mr. Bush, who delivers
his State of the Union address before a joint session of Congress this
evening, has shown no sign of backing away from the planned deployment
of four infantry combat brigades over the coming months. But the
nervousness among Republicans is palpable, especially among those up
for re election in 2008.
House Republican Leader
John Boehner of Ohio surprised some of his own colleagues by proposing
the creation of a bipartisan House select committee to oversee the
president's strategy in Iraq and hold the White House accountable for
achieving prescribed "benchmarks." And among the Republican senators
speaking out most forcefully now are several facing re election in two
years.
"We're all struggling as
to what the right thing to do is. On issues like this you are going to
make some people happy and some people unhappy," said Sen. Norm Coleman
(R., Minn.).
Mr. Warner, who will be
80 next month, is weighing his own future and whether to seek another
term in 2008. Virginia just elected a Democrat, Sen. Jim Webb, a
Vietnam veteran who ran strongly against the president on the war issue
and will deliver the Democratic response to the State of the Union. But
apart from any political considerations, Mr. Warner's unhappiness with
the direction of the war has been growing for some time, and if he
should break fully with the president, it would be a major blow.
"It's clear that the
United States' strategy and operations in Iraq can only be sustained
and achieved with the support of the American people," Mr. Warner said
"I'm a veteran of the Vietnam period when I was secretary of the Navy,
and while I suggest that that conflict does not have any direct
parallels to this, I did witness the decline of the public support."
(Wall Street Journal Online subscription required)
SAP Trails Nimble Start Ups
SAP
said it will explain at an upcoming news conference why it is missing
earnings targets when business software spending is increasing. SAP's
slump may highlight an industry wide shift in which start ups wield an
advantage over titans.
Companies Push for Caps on Emissions
The Case Against Stents
Citigroup CEO Under Pressure
advertisement
E MAIL SIGN UP
Stay abreast of the day's headlines and receive analysis of the top
news of the day, with our email alerts. Check the boxes below to
subscribe. EuroLinks Daily Alert Thinking Global The Morning Brief The Afternoon Report The Evening Wrap For more information on these emails, or to view or change any of your e mail settings, please visit the E Mail Center .
FREE U.S. QUOTES
Symbol
Name
Three great ways to get
ONLINE
Start a FREE two week trial of the Online Journal
PRINT
Get Free Weeks of The Print Journal
MOBILE
Get up to date headlines on the go
In 150 words or less: Question: How does Hillary Clinton's entrance into the 2008 presidential race most impact both the overall shape, as well as the final outcome of the race?
Structurally, a Senator Clinton as President, is a better choice than state governors, which we have had a number of. And since we couldn't have a Vice President due to the individual state legislated Electoral College votes distribution which has fallaciously established that both heads of state have to come from the same party, despite the People, it would return a Federal employee to a Federal office and some states are changing that populous inequality.
State governors perhaps don't have as much experience with the competition in the multi laden "bills" among the States. Federally they are not one "bill" but a number of unrelated bargaining proposals between competing states by which often "backroom" politics and the lobbyists on K Street put the thumbscrews to the People. As any governor might tell you, governors like the Bushes have often gotten their way within the apparatus of a State. Elect a woman president for the world. (150 words)
Source: Newsvine Hillary vs. The Field
Tuesday, January 23, 2007
Compiled 2 AM E.T.
In This E Mail:
World
U.S.
Washington
Business
Technology
Sports
Arts
New York Region
Science
Editorials
Op Ed
Customize Today's Headlines Search
TOP STORIES
Advertisement
You're invited to an NYU Information Session.
Curious about career options in today's fast growing
industries? Attend an Information Session at NYU's School
of Continuing and Professional Studies and explore course
offerings that can boost career opportunities. For a full
list of sessions, click on our calendar page below.
http: www.scps.nyu.edu nyt043
Death Knell May Be Near for Public Election Funds
By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK
The public financing system has failed to keep pace with the torrents of money flowing toward the presidential elections.
Bush, at Low Point in Polls, Will Push Domestic Agenda
By JIM RUTENBERG and ROBERT PEAR
Advisers said they hoped the president s speech on Tuesday would
re energize his domestic agenda by striking a bipartisan and ambitious
tone.
Illinois Is Putting Lottery on Block for Quick Payoff
By CHARLES DUHIGG and JENNY ANDERSON
The state hopes to attract as much as 10 billion from investors in one
of the largest privatizations of a state run program.
NYTimes.com Homepage
Back to Top
QUOTATION OF THE DAY
"We are looking at a 100 million entry fee."
MICHAEL TONER,
chairman of the Federal Election Commission, on the presidential race.
SCIENCE TIMES
Basics: From Yoctoseconds to Eons
In
a new column, Natalie Angier considers scientific principles. Today:
the nature of time. She will also field questions from readers.
Pipeline: The State of Our Energy Policy
Lisa Margonelli on what she hopes President Bush will say about energy in his State of the Union message.
WORLD
88 Killed as Car Bombs Devastate Busy Baghdad Market
By MARC SANTORA
Two powerful car bombs ripped through a market in central Baghdad on Monday in one of the worst scenes of carnage since the war began.
In the Vortex of Baghdad, Staying Put This Time
By MARC SANTORA
U.S. soldiers have fortified a cluster of houses in one of Baghdad s
most dangerous neighborhoods in a test case for President Bush s new
security plan.
Armenian Editor s Death Leads to Conciliation
By SUSANNE FOWLER and SEBNEM ARSU
The killing of a newspaper editor in Istanbul is leading to rare conciliatory gestures between Turkey and Armenia .
More World News
Back to Top
U.S.
In Arab Capital of U.S., Ethnic Divide Remains
By NEIL MacFARQUHAR
Arab Americans in Dearborn, Mich ., have been unable to capitalize on their political hopes.
Florida Acts to Lower Home Insurance Cost
By ABBY GOODNOUGH
Struggling to fulfill a campaign promise made last fall by virtually
every Florida lawmaker, the Legislature approved a series of measures
that would have the state take on additional insurance risk.
A Dose of Maturity for a California Protest
By JESSE McKINLEY
Three environmental activists in Berkeley, Calif ., with a combined age of 247, climbed into an oak tree for an hour to protest a hotly contested building plan.
More U.S. News
Back to Top
WASHINGTON
nytimes.com business
Can a star soccer player save an entire industry?
Also in Business:
How to covert your vinyl records into MP3 files
Gambling subpoenas on Wall Street
How did Mutual Funds fare in the fourth quarter?
Supreme Court Constrains Judges Power in Sentencing
By LINDA GREENHOUSE
The Supreme Court ruled that California s 30 year old criminal
sentencing law gave judges authority that resides with juries.
Key Republican Senator Offers Bipartisan Call to Reject Bush Plan for More Troops in Iraq
By JEFF ZELENY and CARL HULSE
Senator John W. Warner s proposal soundly rejected President Bush s
plan and urged the administration to find a new course in Iraq .
Thousands of Abortion Opponents Rally on Mall
By SARAH ABRUZZESE
President Bush delivered a telephone message from Camp David to the
thousands of abortion opponents at the March for Life saying we re
making progress.
More Washington News
Back to Top
BUSINESS
THE ENERGY CHALLENGE
Springtime for Ethanol
By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO
In his State of the Union address, President Bush is expected to call
for a huge increase in the amount of ethanol that refiners mix with
gasoline.
Pfizer, Hurt by Rival Drugs, Will Lay Off 7,800
By ANDREW POLLACK
Pfizer will reorganize its businesses and close several manufacturing and research sites, including a plant in Brooklyn , the borough where the drug company began.
Under Fire, Gap Chief Steps Down
By MICHAEL BARBARO and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN
Paul S. Pressler is out in what the company described as a mutual decision.
More Business News
Back to Top
TECHNOLOGY
Record Labels Contemplate Unrestricted Digital Music
By VICTORIA SHANNON
Major record labels are moving closer to releasing music on the Internet with no copying restrictions.
Sun Microsystems Will Use Intel Chips
By LAURIE J. FLYNN
Sun Microsystems and Intel announced a deal for Sun to use Intel chips
in some of its computer servers, a setback for the rival chip maker
Advanced Micro Devices.
Profit Increases at Chip Maker
By REUTERS
Texas Instruments, the world s biggest maker of chips for cellphones,
said that its quarterly profit rose from a year ago because of a tax
credit.
More Technology News
Back to Top
SPORTS
AUSTRALIAN OPEN
Williams Hangs on to Advance to Semifinals
By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY
Serena Williams struggled with her movement and timing early in the
match with Shahar Peer, but continued her remarkable Australian Open
performance.
HEAT 101, KNICKS 83
The Knicks Look Bad, and Marbury Feels Worse
By HOWARD BECK
Disaster took many forms for the Knicks on Monday night, and a 28 point
first quarter deficit to the Miami Heat wasn t even the worst of it.
A Shared Dream Fulfilled
By KAREN CROUSE
Bears Coach Lovie Smith and Colts Coach Tony Dungy are prepared to meet, and make history, on football s biggest stage.
More Sports News
Back to Top
ARTS
For Worse and for Better: Documenting an Obsession
By ALLISON HOPE WEINER
An affair goes awry in the Sundance entry Crazy Love, the latest documentary from New York publicist turned filmmaker, Dan Klores.
MUSIC REVIEW GLOBALFEST
Individualists, Straddling Cultures and Exporting Ideas
By JON PARELES
At the world music showcase with a dozen acts at Webster Hall on
Sunday, many of the musicians cited dual origins and offered imported
ideas with an urbane grace.
Outsider to His Kin, but a Ghost No More
By KATHRYN SHATTUCK
An outsider artist s exhibit leaves family members with a newfound sense of pride.
More Arts News
Back to Top
NEW YORK REGION
Police May Get an Academy That Can Fit All Its Recruits
By CARA BUCKLEY
In his State of the City address, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced
that the city was searching for a site for a new police academy.
In Douglass Tribute, Slave Folklore and Fact Collide
By NOAM COHEN
Historians have questioned the accuracy of a monument planned for Frederick Douglass Circle near Central Park.
New Scanners for Tracking City Workers
By SEWELL CHAN
The Bloomberg administration is devoting more than 180 million toward
state of the art technology to keep track of when city employees come
and go.
More New York Region News
Back to Top
SCIENCE
Do You Believe in Magic?
By BENEDICT CAREY
Scientists are trying to figure out why even the skeptics among us
cling to lucky numbers, special game day clothing and other odd rituals.
A Radical Step to Preserve a Species: Assisted Migration
By CARL ZIMMER
Assisted migration triggers strong, mixed feelings from conservation
biologists but it may be the only way to save some of the world s
biodiversity.
BASICS
Making Sense of Time, Earthbound and Otherwise
By NATALIE ANGIER
Let s think about the nature of the seconds, days, seasons and years by
which we humans calibrate our clocks and merrily spend down our lives.
More Science News
Back to Top
EDITORIALS
Chemical Insecurity
The new Democratic leadership in Congress has a chance to finally protect the nation s chemical plants from an attack.
From Pakistan, With Jihad
Washington
should demand that Pakistan s president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, enforce
an immediate halt on Pakistani military support for the Taliban
insurgents who are crossing the border and killing American troops.
Nicotine Manipulation Confirmed
Any doubts that the tobacco industry has surreptitiously raised the
nicotine content of cigarettes should be laid to rest by a study from
researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health.
Watching the Energy Watchdog
A report from the state s Public Service Commission about last summer s
electrical blackout in Queens ignored a critical part of the problem:
the commission itself, which has been incompetently monitoring the
energy monopoly.
More Editorials
Back to Top
OP ED
OP ED COLUMNIST
Et Tu, George?
By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Forget the Vietnam analogy. A more trenchant analysis of Iraq style adventures appears in the histories of Thucydides, written 2,400 years ago.
GUEST COLUMNIST
A Trial to Remember
By STACY SCHIFF
To some minds, a jury has not been the only thing missing from United States of America v. I. Lewis Libby.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
The Mystery of the Chinese Baby Shortage
By BETH NONTE RUSSELL
How is one to know whether the decrease in adoptions from China reflects a lack of supply or a lack of demand?
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
Keeping Up With Nigeria
By KARIN LISSAKERS
Our government s record on resource revenue management looks more like
that of a corruption ridden failing state than that of an advanced
industrial country.
Go to Editorials Op Ed
Back to Top
ON THIS DAY
On Jan. 23, 1973, President Richard Nixon announced an accord had been reached to end the Vietnam War.
See this front page
Buy this front page
Back to Top
Norman Mailer s bravado marred almost everything he wrote. Judging by his essays on the space program or the presidential campaigns, Mailer can be brilliant when writing about man s intellectual pursuits. Unfortunately, he can be insulting when writing about instinctive behavior such as violence or sexuality. He refuses to identify with women or with homosexuals. And when he praises black males, it s usually reserved for pimps, drug addicts, gamblers or felons. Gerald Early, a black sports writer, once complained about how little Mailer had grown in his understanding of race relations between the time that he wrote The White Negro during the 1950s and The Fight (concerning the Ali Foreman match) in the 1970s. In the earlier work, Mailer states that it was no accident that psychopathy is most prevalent with the Negro. In the latter work, he speaks of the pride Blacks took in their skill as pimps. Mailer was once arrested for stabbing his second wife. When assisting Jack Abbot, the author of The Belly of the Beast , to get out of jail on parole, Abbot was once again arrested this time for murder. Mailer has also praised the intellect of mass killers such as Gary Gilmore and Charles Manson.
Mailer is a publicity hound that, in the past, desperately wanted to be identified as the greatest writer of his generation. As an insecure twenty six year old, he penned the novel Naked and the Dead . As uneven as that novel was, he has not been able to write one since that was nearly as good. The Deer Park , The Executioner s Song and Ancient Evenings were Mailer s attempt to write that epic novel, but in all three cases he failed. Mailer has a terrific feel for the small nuances. He generally has no feeling whatsoever for the big picture. Mailer is now in his mid eighties and there s no reason to believe that the great novel he wished to write will ever be forthcoming. So why take the man seriously at all? For one, despite all of the hallucinogens that he ingested, his mind is still in tact and he can speak from an incredible breadth of experience. For two, Mailer has always had the courage to not shy away from controversy. And three, he is so uncomfortably aware of his own limitations that he is forthright about the struggles he has had to go through to keep himself from shattering to pieces. Because of this, Mailer is the only one who could have written Tough Guys Don t Dance . And he s the only one audacious enough to think he could actually direct the movie himself.
Tough Guys Don t Dance starts out strange enough. A loser named Tim Madden (Ryan O Neal), after binging on some concoction of drugs, wakes up in his ex wife s house with a new tattoo on his arm and finds his girlfriend s head wrapped up in his stash of marijuana beside his car that is parked outside. This creates quite the dilemma for him because he can t remember if he was the one that actually decapitated her. Along the way we discover that there are more heads. This is both a relief and a problem for Tim. Though Tim was never quite convinced that he committed any murder, he couldn t give a plausible alibi even to himself. Thus he feels less guilty knowing there were too many heads that had no connection to his person. Unfortunately, he has no way to prove that he s not the murderer so it really looks like he s on the rap for all of the heads. For the remainder of the movie, he plays the part of private investigator (for himself) to discover what actually happened.
Meanwhile, his father, Dougy Madden (Lawrence Tierney), is a bit concerned about him. His father is a tough man and been through a large number of scrapes. He s a bartender who has associated with professional fighters and mobsters. The only thing that was ever going to stop him was the cancer he was now dying from. The father does not understand his flaky son, but he would do anything he could to straighten him out.
We also have a number of flashbacks, the most important concerning Tim s ex wife, Patty (Debra Sandlund). Patty was rich and not too particular about people she slept with either before or after the marriage. Patty s previous husband, Wardley (John Bedford Lloyd), was completely odious to her and at one point she asked Tim to murder him. (Since Tim couldn t even commit a murder under these circumstances, it stands to reason that he probably could not have committed any later murders.) There are so many other flashbacks wrapped in subplots (adding up to several murders and at least two suicides) that it would be impossible to mention them all.
Finally, we have the Chief of Police, Regency (Wings Hauser), who is not your normal law and order man. Regency is involved in wife swapping, various big time drug deals and a number of sex parties. He also appears to be a serial killer. Let s just say that, though the plot does get confusing at times, he is probably the one responsible for all of the heads. When things are looking bad for the sheriff, he simply takes himself out. With no one to point the finger at and with Tim potentially facing the charges for several murders, Tim and Dougy decide to (as in Dougy s words) deep six the heads to destroy all of the evidence. (Tim and Dougy take a boat out into the ocean and dump all of the heads there.)
Mailer is, of course, open to criticism for all of his lunacy, but this time he has shown that many of his critics are in a rut. Movie critics may decry clich ridden plots and storylines (something this movie defies in everyway), but they secretly disdain anything that departs from the Hollywood script and will nitpick about a movie that does just that. Most movie reviewers say that the production of Tough Guys Don t Dance looks amateurish. They will acknowledge that the acting of Tierney and Sandlund and Hauser is magnificent (O Neal comes across almost strangely conventional). However, they will criticize the confusing plot, the poor use of camera angles, the violence and the number of characters that just disappear only to hide the fact that these same critics don t know what to make of this movie. Mailer and the cast poke fun at the pansy critics. Long accused of being a Hemingway clone, the bluster that Mailer brings to the screen is so vital and rare that the so called macho posturing seems fresh. This is an old fashioned detective movie with most of the characters on drugs. This movie is also a coming of age story for a messed up young man under the tutelage of his tough and immaculate father. The father could just as well have been Detective Phillip Marlowe (played perfectly by Bogart in The Big Sleep ) now grown old and who is coping with his cancer stoically. There is an actual connection between the father and son that is personal and real.
Tough Guys Don t Dance , released in 1987, even makes the Tarentino movies seem tame. Mailer, of course, is not known as a filmmaker and it does show in this unpolished movie. But without all of the imperfections, the singular storyline, and the sheer nuttiness, this movie would never have been so fascinating. It s the energy and the fact it contained a couple of characters I liked that gives it an appeal that most similar and later movies completely lacked.
Robert S. Miller 2007
Israel May 'Stand Alone' in Years to Come, Professor Says
By Julie Stahl
CNSNews.com Jerusalem Bureau Chief
January 23, 2007
Jerusalem (CNSNews.com) Despite America's current strong support for Israel, the Jewish State should be prepared to "go it alone" in the years ahead, an American professor warned.
Harvard Law Professor Alan Dershowitz mentioned several events as reasons to be concerned. They could create "the conditions for a perfect storm," he said, with Israel at the center.
The first event is the recent publication of former President Jimmy Carter's book on the Israeli Palestinian conflict.
Dershowitz, addressing a recent national security conference in Herzliya, Israel, called Carter's book a "watershed event" in U.S. Israeli and U.S. Jewish relations.
Carter's book asserts the "old canard" that Jews control the media and because they do, it prevents fair coverage of the Palestinians' plight, said Dershowitz, who addressed the gathering by satellite.
Carter's book also promotes the idea that Jewish control of American politics makes it "suicidal" for any American politician to present a "balanced view" of the Israeli Palestinian conflict.
Carter gave legitimacy to arguments that undermine Israel, Dershowitz said. Until now, such arguments have only been heard from the extreme right and left, he added.
The professor also mentioned college campuses where "junk academics" have created a debate on the proper role of "Jewish influence" on American foreign policy. This is instilling questions about Israel's right to exist in the next generation, he said.
Then there's the "media war" against Israel, where terror groups such as Hizballah and Hamas attack Israelis, using civilians as cover then reap public relations benefits when Israel retaliates and kills the civilians, Dershowitz said.
Finally, there are comments from prominent Americans such as retired General Wesley Clark, a former Democratic presidential hopeful and Supreme Allied NATO commander, who recently hinted that there is too much Jewish involvement in U.S. foreign policy. "New York 'money people' are pushing the U.S. into war with Iran," Dershowitz quoted Clark as saying.
"Israel must be prepared for the possibility of losing American support over the coming years, diplomatically, economically, militarily and morally," said Dershowitz. But Israel should not allow "these stereotypes to weaken its resolve but it must be prepared to go it alone."
Robert Satloff, executive director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said that on a "popular level," Americans deeply support Israel. But on the "elite level," there is a "weakening" of that support.
Satloff said the only people who took Carter to task over his book were Jews. (Fourteen members of the Carter Center's advisory board resigned in protest on Jan. 11.) Twenty years ago, he said, Americans like Scoop Jackson, Jean Kirkpatrick and Dan Moynihan would have stood up against him.
"I am concerned about the weakness in support for Israel among the non Jewish, non Evangelical foreign policy elite that remained silent," Satloff said at the same Herzliya conference. "It is not a crisis, but in my view, it is a point of deep concern."
Calev Ben David of The Israel Project, told Cybercast News Service there is a "troubling" trend in the U.S. of delegitimizing supporters of Israel. But he said that's because Israel's supporters have been successful in transmitting the truth about the Israeli Palestinian conflict.
Some of the people that are against Israel feel that they have "lost the argument," Ben David said. So instead of attacking Israel, they have now focused their criticism on those who support Israel.
This is a "deliberate strategy," because according to polls conducted by The Israel Project, support for Israel is at an all time high in regards to the Israeli Palestinian issue, said Ben David.
Raising the idea of "dual loyalty" of Americans who support Israel is like saying that Spanish speaking American citizens shouldn't participate in the debate on immigration laws, he said.
Israel has both Jewish and non Jewish supporters, said Ben David. It's a "smear tactic" to question their right to make an argument in favor of Israel, he said.
Israel, the only democracy in the Middle East, is considered America's closest ally in the region. The U.S. is Israel's closet ally by far in the international community.
Israel is considered to have strong bi partisan support in Congress, and visiting U.S. diplomats and politicians always make it a point to emphasize the strong U.S. Israel ties and American commitment to Israeli security.
On a religious level, American Jews and Evangelical Christians alike regard Israel's existence as having Biblical importance.
The U.S. also is the main broker in the Israeli Palestinian negotiating process and is leading the fight against terrorism worldwide a war that Israel has been waging for decades.
Hi, my name is Victor Tan Viet Ho.
I am originally from Vietnam .
I came to the States because I was ...
Howdy people,
I wrote these essays in 1998 right after coming back from Vietnam . Once in a while I send these out again at my friends' requests; so here they are. Please keep in mind that the events took place in 1998.
Enjoy,
Victor
Howdy people,
I am baaccckkkk in the US! I can't wait to tell you about the trip to Viet Nam.
The whole trip to VN was pasted together by bubble gums! I planned it 2 months ago while I was still in the Persian Gulf. And somehow when things go well, things just go well!
Buying the tickets and applying for the Visas for 2 Americans (my foster parents) and 1 Agonese (me) is a long story itself (my brother gets all the credits for that part).
Here is the story of the trip only. So fasten your seatbelt, sit back, relax and enjoy :)
I didn't get my Visa and ticket to VN until 2.00 AM on the day of departure (4 4) with 2.00 PM flight. Why is that late? It is a long story by itself. Anyway, it was closed but with cigars!!!!
I flew out of Los Angeles , USA to Seoul , Korea where I was supposed to meet my foster parents (who flew out of Chicago and arrived Seoul 10 hours earlier) and fly with them to Saigon , VN.
After arriving to Seoul , I went about the terminal looking for my foster parents; it's Departure time, do you know where your parents are??? Kind of deal! It was a relief when my foster parents found me nervously chewing on my fingernails at the departure gate!
Part 1 South Vietnam
So on to the flight! About 15 minutes before arrival, I found out that my foster parents didn't have the Visas. Do not panic! I kept telling myself. Stay calm and pray! Prepare for the worse and hope for the best was my prayer for the next 20 minutes.
The moment of truth came when I handed our passports and 20 bill to the Immigration dude. I waited and waited for about 2, 3 minutes but it was a long 2, 3 minutes. Finally, the Immie dude looked up, smiled and waved us through; I guessed it took some times for the guy to find the 20 bill underneath the 3 passports. Whoever said money can't buy happiness hasn t been through Immigration at Tan Son Nhut airport.
To prolong our lucks, I tipped the Custom dudes 10 to buy our ways out of the terminal with the luggage intact.
My father, my cousin and her husband were there to welcome us. It was a Kodak moment! As I later found out that the whole trip was a long Kodak moment with my foster father clicking the camera away.
The place we stayed for the next 3 days was the Guesthouse of the Dept. of Foreign Affair (nha tr c a B Ngo i V 1B Ph m Ng c Th ch) 15 day. It was at a convenient location; close enough to downtown and the Re unification Palace and between H Con R a and the Notre Dame Church .
The next morning (4 6), we went out to breakfast at a nearby restaurant. Ice milked coffee with Spring Rolls for breakfast. Not a bad beginning; I could see it.
After breakfast, we went downtown and walked around. It was safe and sound. Not too many street vendors bothered us and if they were, they didn't persist. We went inside the Notre Dame church and checked it out my 1st time inside that church after all the years living in Saigon. Holy sinner, Batman!
Re unification Palace (the ex South Vietnamese Presidential Palace) was the next stop. My ticket was 25 cents and my foster parents tickets were 4 bucks. I guessed I am better looking, huh? We had a female tour guide. This also was my 1st time inside the place after all the years living in Saigon.
After that, we went up to the top floor of the Majestic Hotel to look out to the Saigon river. The view was nice and the drinks were expensive; that's all I can say about the place.
In the afternoon, we went to Kim Cafe on Ph m Ng L o Street to check out the tours and their prices. We enjoyed the sugarcane juice at the street corner 4 glasses for 10000 dong (about 80 cents); I didn't know that we were way over charged.
Dinner was at the Royal Court Restaurant (inside Rex Hotel). My father was there. Being hungry and inexperience, I ordered way too much food. Flashes were flashed and pictures were taken Kodak God must be smiling. During dinner there was a show VNese Royal music and traditional dance. Everything was good including the bill.
After dinner, my foster parents went back to the guesthouse and I went clubbing. At 11.00 PM, I went back to the guesthouse and called it a day.
The second day started out with breakfast at M Ch T c the best Egg Noodle soup restaurant in town. The noodle soups were good but the bowls were too small. There I pointed out the jackfruit to my foster parents.
Kodak moment again! Every meal was a photo ops.
After breakfast, we walked to my father's house. We stopped by a kindergarten along the way to watch the kids played in the courtyard. No cameras were allowed unless we have permission from the Dept. of Education. We also stopped by a Catholic Church.
At my father's house, my foster parents had the chance to see how a normal typical VNese lives. My foster parents presented some presents to my father. Kodak moment again!
Afterward, we went to my old elementary school and our old house (the gov't is managing it for us for the convenience of the VNese people) which is being used as a print shop of some kinds. We then took a cab ride around town to Anh's old school (L H ng Phong) and L c Th 's old school (Nguy n th Minh Khai). Along the way, I bought the plane tickets to DaNang 69 person.
In the afternoon, my foster parents went to the Museum of the War Crimes of the Foreign Invaders (instead of the American and the puppets) by themselves. I went home to my father and then went to visit my relatives. I stopped by one of the travel offices and bought the tickets for the T y Ninh and C Chi trip for the next day.
Dinner was at Majestic Hotel. It was a piano buffet dinner. All you can eat for 12 person. The piano player was good because she is an instructor at the National Musical Institute. After dinner, we rushed over to the Mondial Restaurant to watch the Vietnamese Traditional Musical Show it was supposed to be a dinner show, but we only had drinks. Vietnamese Traditional Musical Show if you have seen it once, you have seen it all.
The 3rd day in VN, we went to Kim Cafe to get on the mini bus for the T y Ninh and Cu Chi tour. The countryside sceneries were nice but it was hot because the van's airconditioning system broke down; windows were opened and the air was refreshing warm but refreshing!
T a Th nh Cao i and the noon ceremony were the only things we saw in
T y Ninh. I had a creepy feeling every time I went inside T a Th nh the eye on the altar and the eyes on the walls seemed to look at my every move.
The street vendors were bothersome; their motto was "Every tourist is a potential customer". When one refuses to buy, the vendors usually said in English "Maybe later?!?". I found a way to deal with the street vendors by telling them that I am willing to buy their goods as long as they put my bill on tab and I said it with a smile. It worked wonderfully! And when they said "Maybe later?!?", I replied "Maybe tomorrow!". Trust me! It worked!
One of vendors wanted to kidnap me for her sister. I asked her how many sisters does she have and which sister will keep me. I knew I ruined it because she rode away on her bike. Wished I was kidnapped!!!
Lunch at a road side restaurant and then on to Cu Chi. My foster parents paid 4 each to see a movie about the Cu Chi tunnel and went tunnel crawling. I don't do VC stuffs so I just sat at the roadside shack and had 2 coconuts.
The bus got back to Saigon by 6.00 PM. Dinner time!
The Royal Garden Restaurant (Vu o n Thu o .ng Uye ?n) on top of the Rex Hotel was the choice of restaurant. Again, too much good food! After dinner, my foster parents went back to the guesthouse and I went to my father's place to talk to my father.
That's all, folks! Now you know what I did on the first 3 days in VN. The next 3 days in Central VN are a lot more interesting, so don't forget to check your Email tomorrow! Maybe tomorrow!?!
Forget who won or lost here's the dirt on the hottest feuds, most embarrassing moments and strangest backstories in Academy history
By Kimberly Potts
Betty Boop This: '20s screen siren Clara Bow added star wattage to the very first Academy Awards.
1929
Oscar's Itty Bitty Debut
The first Oscar ceremony runs short really short. As in five minutes . Held at Hollywood's Roosevelt Hotel, with tickets going for a mere five spot, Academy president Douglas Fairbanks played host, Al Jolson sang, and the Clara Bow Gary Cooper World War I action movie Wings nabbed the first ever Best Picture Oscar.
1934
Frank's Foibles
When Best Picture presenter Will Rogers opened the envelope and said, "Come on up and get it, Frank!" Lady for a Day director Frank Capra assumed Rogers was speaking to him and rushed to the stage. Too bad Rogers was actually talking to Frank Floyd , director of that year's actual winner, Cavalcade . Hey, at least the awards weren't televised then.
How Times Have Changed: FDR praised Hollywood for showing "the American way of life" and the "truths of our democracy" during his speech before the 1941 Oscars.
1938
Oscar Kidnapped
In Old Chicago star Alice Brady won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress but was sick and unable to attend the ceremony. When her name was announced, a stranger took to the stage and accepted the award on her behalf. Unfortunately, Brady didn't know the man, who absconded with her statue and was never to be found and Brady, sadly, died before a replacement statue could be issued.
1941
Presidential Approval
Hollywood got a big seal of approval from a very special Oscar guest star: President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who became the first U.S. president to participate in the Academy Awards when he kicked off the radio broadcast of the 13th ceremony with a six minute speech that praised Hollywood movies for showing "the American way of life" and the "truths of our democracy."
1943
Biggest Blowhard
"I am practically unprepared" is how Best Actress winner Greer Garson began her acceptance speech for her role in Mrs. Miniver kicking off the longest Oscar speech in history. While those in attendance claimed it ran as long as 30 minutes, Garson later insisted was only six minutes, but no one was listening to anything she said at that point anyway.
Chatty Cathy: "I am practically unprepared " is how Best Actress winner Greer Garson began the longest acceptance speech in Oscars history.
1947
Non Actor Double Dips
The first person to walk away on Oscar night with two awards for the same performance wasn't an actor at all: It was Army instructor Harold Russell, who lost both of his hands in WWII. Russell was so moving in William Wyler's The Best Years of Our Lives that he was nominated for a Best Supporting Actor Oscar, and the Academy, convinced he didn't have a chance at winning a competitive statue, decided to award him an Honorary Oscar "for bringing hope and courage to his fellow veterans." But the Academy underestimated just how powerful Russell's performance was. In a sad postscript, Russell was forced to sell his Oscar in 1992 to raise cash for his wife's medical expenses.
1953
Oscar's TV Debut! Actress' Public Humiliation
Variety reported that more than 90 million people in the U.S. and Canada watched the first ever Oscars telecast on NBC, with Bob Hope as host. Unfortunately for Best Actress winner Shirley Booth ( Come Back, Little Sheba ), that meant 90 million people saw her trip up the steps on her way to the podium to accept her little golden guy.
1959
Oscar Comes Up Short
Twenty minutes short, to be exact. Seems the producer of the show was so fearful he would run longer than the budgeted two hours that he began cutting musical numbers. Except he came up 20 minutes short.
Protest Pawn: Marlon Brando sent a D list actress in Native American dress to the 1973 Oscars to publicly reject his Best Actor Oscar, citing Hollywood's treatment of American Indians.
Despite host Jerry Lewis' best efforts to vamp, the network pulled the plug and left viewers to watch a 15 minute sports reel. Can they hire this guy again?
1962
Gate Crashin' Cabbie
A cab driver named Stan Berman stole the spotlight when he walked onto the stage while Shelley Winters and Vince Edwards were presenting the Oscar for Best Cinematography. "Ladies and gentlemen, I'm the world's greatest gate crasher, and I just came here to present Bob Hope with his 1938 trophy," Berman said, handing a mini statue to Winters. "We'll give it to him," Winters reposted. Later, host Hope quipped, "Who needs Price Waterhouse? All we need is a doorman." P.S.: Berman, who died in 1968, was in fact an accomplished gate crasher: He not only posed as a waiter to get Queen Elizabeth II's autograph during her 1957 U.S. visit, he crashed John F. Kennedy's Inaugural Ball in 1961.
1968
Oscar Mourns MLK
The 1968 ceremony, originally planned for April 8, was postponed for two days as the nation mourned the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. It seemed especially appropriate, then, that the year's Best Picture Oscar would go to In the Heat of the Night , starring Sidney Poitier as a police detective who forges mutual respect with a racist Southern police chief, played by Best Actor Oscar winner Rod Steiger.
"Hello, gorgeous!": Barbra Streisand was so excited to win Best Actress for Funny Girl she didn't seem to mind the peep show she was giving the audience in her supersheer outfit.
1969
Babs' Indecent Exposure
When Barbra Streisand tied with Katharine Hepburn for the Best Actress Oscar at the 1969 ceremony, she was so excited that she tore her Arnold Scaasi bell bottom pantsuit on the way to the stage. But that's not why everyone remembers her outfit. While Babs was accepting the statue, the spotlights revealed that her outfit was actually, shockingly, quite see through. "Hello, gorgeous!" she said as she raised her Funny Girl trophy in the air. Hello , indeed.
1971
Scott Snubs Oscar
Grumpy Patton star George C. Scott, who had refused an Oscar nod for his role in The Hustler in 1961 (and subsequently lost), again refused a Best Actor nomination from the Academy this year, calling the ceremonies a "meat parade" and "offensive, barbarous and innately corrupt." But in some weird reverse psychology move, Scott snagged the Best Actor win. The only man who stood to collect his statue was a Patton producer. Scott was at home, watching a hockey game.
Little Tramp's Comeback: After a 20 year absence from Hollywood, Charlie Chaplin was greeted by the longest standing ovation in Oscars history.
1972
Chaplin's Dramatic Return
Legendary comedian Charlie Chaplin had never won an Oscar in competition and had remained in a 20 year, self imposed exile from the U.S. after being accused of "un American activities" by Joseph McCarthy when he was awarded a Lifetime Achievement Award by the Academy. So when they turned up the lights after a retrospective of Chaplin's career to reveal the famed director standing on the stage, the audience stood up and welcomed him with the longest standing ovation in Oscar history Chaplin won a competitive Oscar the next year for his 1952 flick Limelight the movie was eligible because it had never been released in Los Angeles until 1972.
1973
Brando's Boycott
With the buzz that he was a shoo in to win the Best Actor prize for The Godfather , method man Marlon Brando hatched an elaborate "unacceptance" speech that dwarfed George C. Scott's earlier refusal. When presenters Roger Moore and Liv Ullmann opened the envelope and declared Brando the winner, a young woman dressed in Native American attire, calling herself Sacheen Littlefeather, appeared at the podium and refused the Oscar on Brando's behalf citing "the treatment of the American Indians today by the film industry." Littlefeather turned out to be a D list actress named Maria Cruz, whose biggest post Oscar gig included posing for a nude Playboy centerfold.
1974
We're Going Streaking!
Well, this guy did at least. Presenter David Niven was all ready with the perfect quip on this Oscar night, when a San Francisco photographer and art gallery owner named Robert Opel suddenly bolted across the stage, completely nude, giving the crowd and the TV audience a look at his, ahem, little golden guy. "Probably the only laugh that man will ever get in his life is by stripping off his clothes and showing his shortcomings," Niven ad libbed. In fact, Niven's response was so perfect it almost sounded like it had been scripted for the occasion, which, for years afterward, some critics believed is exactly what happened.
1980
Hoffman Takes the High Road
Dustin Hoffman had criticized movie awards for pitting Oscar types against each other and "hurt(ing) the hell out of the ones that lose," so no one knew exactly what he'd say if he took the Best Actor honors for Kramer vs. Kramer . But instead of an anti Oscar rant, Hoffman took his moment in the spotlight to thank his parents "for not practicing birth control." His Kramer co star, Meryl Streep, meanwhile, was the one who gave her Oscar some stinky treatment. After winning the trophy for Best Supporting Actress, Streep left the statue in the bathroom.
1985
And the Nominees Are
Eh, never mind. Sir Laurence Olivier was so anxious grumpy bored at the podium he forgot to actually read the list of nominated movies for the Best Picture Oscar. Instead, he opened the envelope and shouted, " Amadeus !" For the record, The Killing Fields , A Passage to India , Places in the Heart and A Soldier's Story were the other nominees.
Snow Whiney: Disney threatened to sue Oscars producers after a musical number featuring Snow White and Rob Lowe bombed big time.
1986
Newman Breaks Jinx
Paul Newman had lost all previous tries at an Oscar statue, so he told reporters that on this night, the night he was nominated for Best Actor in The Color of Money , he'd stay away. "I'm superstitious," he said. "I've been there six times and lost. Maybe if I stay away, I'll win." And he did.
1989
Snow White Number Makes Disney Grumpy
Oscar producer Allan Carr had promised an unforgettable show opener to the 1989 Oscar telecast. And he delivered, though his musical number featuring Snow White; a singing, dancing Rob Lowe; a sashay through the star studded audience; and the song "Proud Mary" ended up as infamous as it was unforgettable. Disney, in fact, was so horrified by the cheesefest that the company threatened to sue over the unauthorized use of its Snow White character. Cooler heads prevailed in the legal matters, but Carr's reputation never quite did.
1992
Not Your Grandpa's Oscars
The night's biggest scene stealer, hands down, was 72 year old cowboy star Jack Palance, who, after decades of more Oscar worthy performances, finally nabbed a statue for his Supporting Actor gig in Billy Crystal's midlife crisis cowboy comedy City Slickers . But not content with a mere speech, Palance dropped to the floor to show the audience that he could still manage a one handed pushup or two.
Whoops!: 1994 Best Actor winner Tom Hanks did not out his high school drama teacher during his acceptance speech Well, OK, he sorta did.
1994
Hanks' Big Outing
Yes, it did inspire the movie In Out , but despite the hullabaloo at the time, Best Actor winner Tom Hanks did not out his high school drama teacher during his acceptance speech. Well, OK, he sorta did, but with the teacher's permission. While accepting the trophy for his role in the AIDS drama Philadelphia , Hanks delivered a heartfelt speech that paid homage to Mr. Rawley Farnsworth, "who taught me 'act well the part, there all the glory lies.' " Farnsworth had been a closeted gay man his whole life, but he later said Hanks had called him before the ceremony and asked his permission to acknowledge him, and his sexuality, if he won.
1999
Benigni Goes Bonkers
Fugly Twins: The drag dress of South Park creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone failed to win any Best Dressed accolades. The duo also lost the Best Original Song statue to Phil Collins ouch!
Robert Benigni, you've just won the Best Actor Oscar for Life Is Beautiful , you've run through the audience, jumping over chairs and Steven Spielberg now how do you want to celebrate? "I am not able to express all my gratitude, because now, my body is in tumult, because it is a colossal moment of joy I would like to be Jupiter and kidnap everybody and lie down making love to everybody, because I don't know how to express it's a question of love." Or maybe it's a question of sanity?
2000
Drag Carpet
One of the year's big pictures was Boys Don't Cry , about a transgendered teen who winds up murdered. But that didn't inspire any political correctness from South Park creators Matt Stone and Trey Parker, who made a spectacular, or rather spectacularly weird, arrival on the red carpet. Stone donned a long pink spaghetti strapped gown that was reminiscent of Gwyneth Paltrow's famous Ralph Lauren Oscar dress, while his pal Parker sported a revealing green number that recalled Jennifer Lopez's infamous Grammy Versace gown. Unfortunately, not only did the boys not win any Best Dressed accolades for their getups, their South Park: Bigger, Longer and Uncut tune "Blame Canada" also lost out to Phil Collins. Now that's a drag.
Too Gross for Comfort: As if dressing like a vampire to the Oscars weren't bad enough, Angelina Jolie freaked everybody out by playing kissyface with her brother.
2000
Angelina's Over Affection
She may be a great humanitarian and the prettier half of Brangelina now, but it wasn't so long ago that Angelina Jolie was getting her freak on by getting a little freaky, and creepy, with her brother. While accepting her Best Supporting Actress statue for Girl, Interrupted , Jolie declared "I am so in love with my brother right now!" Then she proceeded to kiss him, a lingering kiss, on the mouth. Ewww!
2002
Julia's Me Me Me! Moment
Sure, maybe Julia Roberts was just expressing her excitement for her pal and Pelican Brief co star Denzel Washington. But when she exclaimed "I love my life!" upon opening the envelope that revealed Washington as the Best Actor winner for his role in Training Day and then proceeded to take up half his acceptance speech time by hanging on his arm many critics felt the Pretty Woman was displaying a bit of ungracious, selfish behavior that brought the focus on her instead of, you know, the winner.
2003
The Kiss and the Diss
At least it wasn't a dull night. First, pot stirring filmmaker Michael Moore unleashed an anti Bush rant during his acceptance speech for the Best Documentary Oscar, calling Dubya "a fictitious president" who sparked a war for "fictitious reasons." Many in the liberal Hollywood audience applauded Moore, but the volume seemed to be just as high from those who booed him. Later, there was nothing fictitious about The Pianist star Adrien Brody's excitement at winning the Best Actor trophy, and there was nothing subtle about the way he chose to celebrate grabbing presenter Halle Berry and putting her in a liplock, before telling her, "Bet you didn't know that was in the gift bag."
2005
Yo, MTV Oscars: Three 6 Mafia became the first rap group to take home the gold for their Hustle Flow anthem, "It's Hard Out There for a Pimp."
Oscars Redux
In an effort to shake up a staid routine, and cut down on the show's tendency to run a tad long, producers decided that at the newly opened Kodak Theater in Hollywood, some presentations would be made in the audience, and for others, all nominees would assemble onstage while the winner was announced. The show did run shorter, but it all made the Oscars seem less prestigious. Later, show host Chris Rock summed up the general attitude about the strange experiment when he said, "Next year, they're going to give out the Oscars in the parking lot."
2006
Pimp My Oscars
It was the first mention of Oscar "mafia" that didn't involve Robert De Niro or The Godfather . And that was only part of the reason the nomination of, and performance by, rappers Three 6 Mafia made the usually staid ceremony so trippy. The only sight odder than their performance of "It's Hard Out Here for a Pimp," the Best Song nominee from Hustle Flow , was the sight of the Three 6 Mafia ers rushing the stage to accept statues when the song actually won. Shout outs to Jesus and multiple "homies" made for an MTV (read: too hip for Oscars) moment.
2007 Oscar Nominations: Complete List
The Associated Press
Complete list of the 79th Annual Academy Award nominations announced Jan. 23 at the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in Beverly Hills, Calif.:
Best Picture: " Babel ," " The Departed ," " Letters From Iwo Jima ," " Little Miss Sunshine ," " The Queen ."
Actor: Leonardo DiCaprio , " Blood Diamond "; Ryan Gosling , " Half Nelson "; Peter O'Toole , " Venus "; Will Smith , " The Pursuit of Happyness "; Forest Whitaker , " The Last King of Scotland ."
Actress: Penelope Cruz , " Volver "; Judi Dench , " Notes on a Scandal "; Helen Mirren , "The Queen"; Meryl Streep , " The Devil Wears Prada "; Kate Winslet , " Little Children ."
Supporting Actor: Alan Arkin , "Little Miss Sunshine"; Jackie Earle Haley , "Little Children"; Djimon Hounsou , "Blood Diamond"; Eddie Murphy , "Dreamgirls"; Mark Wahlberg , "The Departed."
Supporting Actress: Adriana Barraza , "Babel"; Cate Blanchett , "Notes on a Scandal"; Abigail Breslin , "Little Miss Sunshine"; Jennifer Hudson , "Dreamgirls"; Rinko Kikuchi , "Babel."
Director: Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu , "Babel"; Martin Scorsese , "The Departed"; Clint Eastwood , "Letters From Iwo Jima"; Stephen Frears, "The Queen"; Paul Greengrass , " United 93 ."
Foreign Language Film: " After the Wedding ," Denmark; " Days of Glory (Indigenes) ," Algeria; " The Lives of Others ," Germany; " Pan's Labyrinth ," Mexico; " Water ," Canada.
Adapted Screenplay: Sacha Baron Cohen , Anthony Hines, Peter Baynham, Dan Mazer and Todd Phillips, " Borat Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan "; Alfonso Cuaron, Timothy J. Sexton, David Arata, Mark Fergus and Hawk Ostby, " Children of Men "; William Monahan, "The Departed"; Todd Field and Tom Perrotta, "Little Children"; Patrick Marber, "Notes on a Scandal."
Original Screenplay: Guillermo Arriaga, "Babel"; Iris Yamashita and Paul Haggis, "Letters From Iwo Jima"; Michael Arndt, "Little Miss Sunshine"; Guillermo del Toro, "Pan's Labyrinth"; Peter Morgan, "The Queen."
Animated Feature Film: " Cars ," " Happy Feet ," " Monster House ."
Art Direction: "Dreamgirls," " The Good Shepherd ," "Pan's Labyrinth," " Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest ," " The Prestige ."
Cinematography: " The Black Dahlia ," "Children of Men," " The Illusionist ," "Pan's Labyrinth," "The Prestige."
Sound Mixing: " Apocalypto ," "Blood Diamond," "Dreamgirls," "Flags of Our Fathers," "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest."
Sound Editing: "Apocalypto," "Blood Diamond," "Flags of Our Fathers," "Letters From Iwo Jima," "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest."
Original Score: "Babel," Gustavo Santaolalla; "The Good German," Thomas Newman; "Notes on a Scandal," Philip Glass; "Pan's Labyrinth," Javier Navarrete; "The Queen," Alexandre Desplat.
Original Song: "I Need to Wake Up" from "An Inconvenient Truth," Melissa Etheridge; "Listen" from "Dreamgirls," Henry Krieger, Scott Cutler and Anne Preven; "Love You I Do" from "Dreamgirls," Henry Krieger and Siedah Garrett; "Our Town" from "Cars," Randy Newman; "Patience" from "Dreamgirls," Henry Krieger and Willie Reale.
Costume: " Curse of the Golden Flower ," "The Devil Wears Prada," "Dreamgirls," " Marie Antoinette ," "The Queen."
Documentary (Feature): " Deliver Us From Evil ," " An Inconvenient Truth ," " Iraq in Fragments ," " Jesus Camp ," " My Country, My Country ."
Documentary (Short Subject): "The Blood of Yingzhou District," "Recycled Life," "Rehearsing a Dream," "Two Hands."
Film Editing: "Babel," "Blood Diamond," "Children of Men," "The Departed," "United 93."
Makeup: "Apocalypto," " Click ," "Pan's Labyrinth."
Animated Short Film: "The Danish Poet," "Lifted," "The Little Matchgirl," "Maestro," "No Time for Nuts."
Live Action Short Film: "Binta and the Great Idea (Binta Y La Gran Idea)," "Eramos Pocos (One Too Many)," "Helmer Son," "The Saviour," "West Bank Story."
Visual Effects: "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest," " Poseidon ," " Superman Returns ."
Academy Award winners previously announced this year:
Honorary Award: Ennio Morricone
Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award: Sherry Lansing
http: nrd.nationalreview.com article ?q NmVlNzc4OWI5YTc4MDY1MzhiMDM2OWRhNjgzYzk0ZTk
The Question of Carter s Cash
In which our reporter follows the money
CLAUDIA ROSETT
D id Jimmy Carter do it for the money? That s the question making the rounds about Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid , an anti Israeli screed recently written by the ex president whose Carter Center has accepted millions in Arab funding.
Even in Carter s long history of post presidential grandstanding, this book sets fresh standards of irresponsibility. Purporting to give a balanced view of the Palestinian Israeli conflict, Carter effectively shrugs off such highly germane matters as Palestinian terrorism. The hypocrisies are boundless, and include adoring praise of the deeply oppressive, religiously intolerant Saudi regime side by side with condemnations of democratic Israel. In one section, typical of the book s entire approach, Carter includes a Historical Chronology, from Biblical times to 2006, in which he dwells on events surrounding his 1978 Camp David Accords but omits the Holocaust. Kenneth W. Stein, the founder of the Carter Center s Middle East program, resigned last month to protest the book, describing it in a letter to Fox News as replete with factual errors, copied materials not cited, superficialities, glaring omissions, and simply invented segments. As this article goes to press, more protest resignations, this time from the Carter Center s board of councilors, appear to be in the works.
If there is a silver lining to any of this, it is that Carter s book has drawn much overdue attention to some of the funding that pours into the Carter Center, whose intriguing donor list includes anti Israeli tycoons and Middle East states. Founded in 1982 and appended to Carter s presidential library, the center has served for almost a quarter century as the main base and fund raising magnet for Carter s self proclaimed mission to save the world.
In recent weeks, a number of articles have noted that Carter s anti Israeli views coincide with those of some of the center s prime financial backers, including the government of Saudi Arabia and the foundation of Saudi prince Alwaleed bin Talal bin Abdul Aziz al Saud, whose offer of 10 million to New York City just after Sept. 11 was rejected by then mayor Rudy Giuliani because it came wrapped in the suggestion that America rethink its support of Israel. Other big donors listed in the Carter Center s annual reports include the Sultanate of Oman and the sultan himself; the government of the United Arab Emirates; and a brother of Osama bin Laden, Bakr BinLadin, for the Saudi BinLadin Group. Of lesser heft, but still large, are contributions from assorted development funds of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, as well as of OPEC, whose membership includes oil rich Arab states, Nigeria (whose government is also a big donor to the Carter Center), and Venezuela (whose anti American strongman Hugo Ch vez benefited in a 2004 election from the highly controversial monitoring efforts of the Carter Center).
A recent editorial in Investor s Business Daily , headlined Jimmy Carter s Li l Ol Stink Tank, listed a number of founders of the Carter Center. The names were drawn from the annual reports, and included the king of Saudi Arabia, BCCI scandal banker Agha Hasan Abedi, and Arafat pal Hasib Sabbagh. And, writing last month in the Washington Times , terror funding expert Rachel Ehrenfeld described links going back to the 1970s between the Carter family peanut business and the Bank of Credit and Commerce International, whose Pakistani founder helped bankroll the Carter Center at least until BCCI went belly up in 1991, busted as a global criminal enterprise.
2001
AFP
There is, of course, much more to the Carter Center than this list implies. It is large, with assets totaling 377 million (as of 2005), an operating budget of some 46.8 million, a staff of some 150, a 200 member board of councilors, and hundreds of donors, including not only individuals and foundations, but the U.S. Agency for International Development and the U.S. State Department. Some of the center s work is devoted to such laudable causes as wiping out the parasitical guinea worm. Indeed, it is possible to glean from various news items and brief mentions in the center s annual reports that some of the more intriguing donors, such as the sultan of Oman and the OPEC development fund, have been giving money for exactly such causes. According to one notation on the Carter Center website, for example, King Fahd of Saudi Arabia donated 7.6 million in 1993 to help Carter fight the guinea worm.
But notwithstanding such occasional tidbits, it s stunningly hard to discern from the Carter Center s public documents who is giving precisely how much, and for what. Donor names, sometimes listed only as Anonymous, are lumped under broad categories such as 100,000 or more or 1 million or more. There is no systematic tally of just how much more no clear way to know, for example, whether Saudi money accounts for only a tad of Carter s funding or a mighty dollop, and whether the Saudi share of total contributions has changed over the years. Neither is there any systematic disclosure of who is funding exactly what activities in the name of waging peace, fighting disease, and building hope the center s self proclaimed missions. A reporter s e mail exchange with Carter Center press secretary Deanna Congileo elicits the response that none of the anonymous donors are from the Middle East, but no further details can be released without permission from the donors which, even if granted, will take some time to obtain (stay tuned).
All this might be less disturbing had Carter confined his post presidential efforts to such good works as vanquishing the guinea worm. But for years he has run his own mini presidency complete with a series of attempts to outflank or shape the policies of sitting presidents. These have included to name just two examples his letter writing campaign in 1990 to members of the United Nations Security Council, in an effort to thwart the Bush I coalition that fought the first Gulf War against Saddam Hussein; and his 1994 trip to North Korea, where he proposed to the dying tyrant Kim Il Sung a deeply flawed nuclear freeze deal that may well have helped Kim s son consolidate power and develop ICBMs and atomic bombs.
It could be argued that Carter, whatever his pretensions, is, after all, a private individual running a private foundation, and is therefore under no obligation to disclose full details of the getting and spending of the river of money flowing through his center. (In 2004, the most recent year for which the center s website makes such figures available, donations totaled 146 million.) But in all his waging and fighting and building (and fundraising), Carter has been trading for years on the respect accorded to his former public office. Regardless of whatever room for murk the law allows, full financial disclosure is what sound judgment demands. The Carter Center itself makes much in promotional materials of its efforts to strengthen democracies by promoting government transparency. Is Carter so rigidly certain of his rectitude that he believes himself exempt from his own preaching?
In a recent Los Angeles Times opinion piece defending his new book (and insinuating that the debate over it is being controlled by pro Israeli lobbyists), Carter wrote that he is merely seeking a free and balanced discussion of the facts. It is quite possible that even he may not know for sure whether he has molded his views to suit anti Israeli donors; whether his center has attracted the money of such donors because they like his views; or whether, while fighting the guinea worm, he simply made the unrelated mistake of writing an appallingly biased and bad book. But having parlayed his former public office into global influence, he owes the public at least this much: Tell us, clearly and directly, enough about your supporters and their money that we can, with full information, decide for ourselves what is going on.
Claudia Rosett is a journalist in residence with the Foundation for Defense of Democracies.
Original Message
From: Tancredo For President
To: IowaJohnBirchSociety msn.com
Sent: Wednesday, January 24, 2007 8:32 PM
Subject: Tancredo for President Progress Report
Let Down by the State of the Union Address?
Dear Friend of This Campaign,
Thanks to your early financial support, my campaign for the Republican nomination is really gearing up.
Please know that I really am very grateful!
And as a result of my campaign, the causes we deeply believe in are being heard nationally.
In the last week, I've appeared on Fox and Friends , Neil Cavuto (twice), Wolf Blitzer , Bill O'Reilly , and, just this evening, Paula Zahn , plus just about every radio talk show you can think of.
I'm traveling weekly to Iowa and New Hampshire to meet with voters in those all important early states. In fact, we're looking for office locations in Iowa now.
Wherever I go, the message I bring is the same. I stand for Border Security , Immigration Sanity , and a return to basic Law and Order along our porous borders.
Last night, as I was listening to the the President's State of the Union Address, I felt very sad, let down, and very, very angy. The White House seems determined to work with Pelosi and McCain to ram through an illegal alien amnesty. He seems almost glad to have a Democratic Congress!
Both the President and the Democrats like to call what they want "comprehensive immigration reform," but we aren't buying it!
Truth is, they're trotting out the same old pig . . .
. . . with a slightly different shade of lipstick.
When I was first elected to Congress, there was no organized effort to fight the open borders crowd who ran Capitol Hill. Things looked very bleak.
So I formed the House Immigration Reform Caucus, which now boasts over 100 members. And since I formed the caucus, NOT A SINGLE ILLEGAL ALIEN AMNESTY HAS PASSED in Congress!
Now I'm taking this fight national, with my exploratory committee for a Presidential run. And thanks to you, people are listening.
Perhaps you are one of the unbelievably generous friends who have already said, "Make my donation monthly!" If so, thank you. You've definitely done all you can already.
I also realize that the rest of you have given during past week. I dare not press you for more donations either!
But I can point out the need. And I can tell you of the urgent need for me to move fast to get this campaign momentum.
We need offices in various primary states. We need campaign workers. There are telephone and postage costs to cover. Frankly, it's a lot!
If you feel led to make another donation , it would be GREATLY appreciated and, I trust, wisely used.
(Please Click Here to go to my Secure Donation page and make your additional donation.)
Another thing would you please FORWARD this email to everyone on your list? We really need to get the word out!
Please let me hear from you.
Sincerely,
Tom Tancredo
Thursday, January 25, 2007
Compiled 2 AM E.T. In This E Mail:
World U.S. Washington Business Technology
Sports Arts New York Region Thursday Styles Editorials Op Ed
Customize Today's Headlines Search
TOP STORIES
Advertisement
Big States Plan for Earlier Primaries Scrambles Race
By ADAM NAGOURNEY
The shift would force 2008 presidential candidates to rethink their campaign strategies.
Congress Office Forecasts Drop in U.S. Deficit
By EDMUND L. ANDREWS
The Congressional Budget Office predicted that the deficit would shrink again this year and could swing into a surplus in 2012 but only if President Bush s tax cuts expire in 2010.
Smuggler s Plot Highlights Fear Over Uranium
By LAWRENCE SCOTT SHEETS and WILLIAM J. BROAD
Two recent cases in the Republic of Georgia suggest that the region provides a breeding ground for illicit commerce in atomic materials.
NYTimes.com Homepage
Back to Top
QUOTATION OF THE DAY
"It won t stop us."
VICE PRESIDENT DICK CHENEY, on CNN, discussing the Senate Foreign Relations Committee s approval of a resolution opposing President Bush s plan to send more troops to Iraq.
DINING WINE
Wines of The Times: Brown Ales
The Times tasting panel samples British, German and American brown ales.
Related Article It s Roundball 2, Square Jaw 1
Meagan and Lauren bond as teammates and members of a select sisterhood, daughters of a football coach named
Cowher, writes Harvey Araton.
WORLD
Bush Iraq Plan Is Condemned by
Senate Panel
By JEFF ZELENY
The full Senate is poised to consider the nonbinding, yet strongly symbolic, repudiation of President Bush as early as Wednesday.
Hezbollah Won t Topple the Lebanese Government, Its Leader Says
By NADA BAKRI
Sheik Hassan Nasrallah said Lebanon s opposition movement had decided to stop short of toppling the
government of Fouad Siniora, fearing civil strife.
Iraqi Official Offers Terms From Militia to Avoid Fight
By SABRINA TAVERNISE
The elected mayor of the Sadr City district has approached U.S. military officials and laid out a plan to avoid armed confrontation.
More World News
Back to Top
U.S.
Mississippi Man Arrested in Killing of 2 Blacks in 64
By SHAILA DEWAN
The charges against a 71 year old man are the latest in a string of prosecutions of racially motivated slayings from the 1950s and 60s.
More Ethics Charges Brought Against Official in Duke Case
By DUFF WILSON
The North Carolina State Bar accused Michael B. Nifong of systematic abuse of prosecutorial discretion in the sexual assault case against three
former members of the Duke University lacrosse team.
Hiking Club Spreads a Little Bit of Charlie on Every Peak
By TOM MILLER
Members of the Southern Arizona Hiking Club are depositing ashes from one of their former members on each of the club s 315 authorized peaks.
More U.S. News
Back to Top
WASHINGTON
nytimes.com jobs
A day in the life of an investment banking associate
Also in Job Market:
A day in the life of a literary agent A day in the life of a network news producer Don't miss the online diversity career opportunity development expo
At the Libby Trial, Hints of Intrigue and Betrayal
By DAVID JOHNSTON and JIM RUTENBERG
I. Lewis Libby Jr. s lawyers said that he felt abandoned by the White House as the leak investigation intensified.
Bush Iraq Plan Is Condemned by Senate Panel
By JEFF ZELENY
The full Senate is poised to consider the nonbinding, yet strongly symbolic, repudiation of President Bush as early as Wednesday.
Kerry Will Not Enter Presidential Race
By ADAM NAGOURNEY
John Kerry s announcement, which came at the end of a speech on the Senate floor, was not a surprise.
More
Washington News
Back to Top
BUSINESS
Hedge Fund Chiefs, With Cash,
Join Political Fray
By LANDON THOMAS Jr.
Hedge fund money, which now exceeds 1 trillion, has emerged as a potentially powerful force in politics.
Bonus Pay by Medicare Lifts Quality
By REED ABELSON
Hospitals participating in a Medicare experiment that pays them more to follow medical recommendations have steadily improved the quality of patient
care.
With Health Care Topic A, Some Sketches for a Solution
By MILT FREUDENHEIM
How to tackle the problem of 47 million Americans without health insurance? Start with the more than 8 million uninsured children.
More Business News
Back to Top
TECHNOLOGY
BASICS
Plain Cellphones Can Overachieve, With a
Little Help
By LARRY MAGID
That humble cellphone in your pocket may let you do more than just make phone calls and take pictures.
Q A
Moving It All to Vista
By J. D. BIERSDORFER
When the time comes, how can I move all of my bookmarks, music and other files from my old
computer to a new Windows Vista PC?
GAME THEORY
Rough (but Silly) Justice and Striking (Also Silly) Moves
By CHARLES HEROLD
Invoking "the quiet dignity of a circus clown in the midst of a thunderstorm."
More Technology
News
Back to Top
SPORTS
AUSTRALIAN OPEN
A Strong Run Leads Williams to the Finals in Australia
By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY
Serena Williams continued the most surprising run of her career Thursday by defeating the 17 year old Czech Nicole Vaidisova in the semifinals of the Australian Open, which she won in 2003 and 2005.
N.F.L. and Union to Strengthen Steroid Testing
By JUDY BATTISTA
The new policy includes an increased number of tests and adds financial penalties, with players who are suspended for drug use forfeiting part of their signing bonuses.
U.S. FIGURE SKATING CHAMPIONSHIPS
Pair Pleases the Crowd, but Not the Judges
By LYNN ZINSER
Thanks to a spunky tango, Naomi Nari Nam and Themi Leftheris were the fan favorites Wednesday night, but placed second behind
Rena Inoue and John Baldwin to the displeasure of the crowd.
More Sports News
Back to Top
ARTS
AN INTERVIEW WITH JIM HARRISON
Pleasures of the Hard Worn Life
By CHARLES McGRATH
The author, whose newest novel is Returning to Earth, hunts, cooks, eats and writes with abandon.
Bloomberg and Council Change Arts
Financing
By ROBIN POGREBIN
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the City Council announced that they would make more money available to arts groups, award it on a merit basis and widen a peer review process to level the playing field.
TV REVIEW 'FRIENDS OF GOD'
A Culture of Faith, Devoted Yet Complex
By ALESSANDRA STANLEY
Alexandra Pelosi s documentary glances on the more intolerant and grotesque manifestations of Christian fundamentalism and also the faith s vast following and political clout.
More Arts News
Back to Top
NEW YORK REGION
Police Won t Use 140 Million Radio System
By WILLIAM NEUMAN
The Police Department says the new system is hobbled by widespread interference that garbles communication.
A Halting Plea for Mercy, Heavily Edited
By MICHAEL BRICK
In a courtroom, Ronell Wilson cataloged his sorrows for the 2003 killings of Detectives James V. Nemorin and Rodney J. Andrews.
Sorrow and Reflection in Killer s Housing Project
By TRYMAINE LEE
The
public housing complex where Ronell Wilson lived is closely following the convicted cop killer's trial.
More New York Region News
Back to Top
THURSDAY STYLES
Far From Hollywood
By CATHY HORYN
Haute couture is everything the red carpet is not strange, difficult, emotionally affecting.
Can Polyester Save the World?
By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL
Your disposable fashions add to global warming.
SKIN DEEP
A Word From Our Sponsor
By NATASHA SINGER
Clinique is blurring the lines between cosmetics and medicine.
More Thursday Styles News
Back to Top
EDITORIALS
Energy Rhetoric, and Reality
Once again, we have heard this president make big promises about energy independence. Once again, we fear that very little will change.
Moment of Opportunity in Somalia
Thanks to an unusual and probably fleeting set of events, Somalia has a chance to
return to the community of law abiding and legitimate states.
Closing the Revolving Door
The only real way to reduce the inmate population and the felon class is to ensure that imprisonment is a method of last resort.
Political Meddling With Justice
Congress must demand a clear explanation from Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and the White House on why dedicated prosecutors are being purged.
More Editorials
Back to Top
OP ED
OP ED COLUMNIST
Breaking the Clinch
By DAVID BROOKS
Iraq already has the psychological conditions that have undergirded the great bloodbaths of recent years.
OP ED COLUMNIST
Long on Rhetoric, Short on Sorrow
By BOB HERBERT
There s a hole in
the American system where the leadership used to be.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
For the Good of the Herd
By ARTHUR ALLEN
The logic behind vaccinating those who are not as vulnerable is part of a concept called herd immunity: protect the weaker lambs by bolstering the fold s communal defenses.
Go to Editorials Op Ed
Back to Top
ON THIS DAY
On Jan. 25, 1915, the inventor of the telephone, Alexander Graham Bell, inaugurated U.S. transcontinental telephone service. See this front page
Buy this front page
Back to Top
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy
InternetElect News. Briefly . InternetElectPress InternetElectVideo InternetElect InterElect
It's here! Your new message!
Get
new email alerts with the free Yahoo! Toolbar.
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES
Thursday, January 25, 2007
M A: Cardinal Health Selling Unit to Blackstone for 3.3 Billion
INVESTMENT BANKING: Merrill Chief Pocketed 48 Million in 2006
I.P.O.S OFFERINGS: American Stock Exchange Hires Adviser
VENTURE CAPITAL: Bush Plan May Boost Clean Tech
PRIVATE EQUITY: 3i Targets U.S. With New Investment Team
LEGAL: At H P, More Spying Allegations Fly
HEDGE FUNDS: Hedge Fund Chiefs Join Political Fray
Visit the DealBook Web site for updates throughout the day.
E mail Preferences Advertising Opportunities Help
As many of the world's buyout kings were gathered in Davos, Switzerland ,
to mix with leaders and moguls at the World Economic Forum, their
attention turned to an audacious move by someone in their midst.
Stephen Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group , who was
seen casually roaming the halls of the convention center earlier in the
day showing little sign of what was to come, and his firm announced
Thursday that they had raised their bid for Equity Office Properties Trust
to 38.3 billion, including debt, making the biggest leveraged buyout
in history even bigger. Blackstone increased its offer to 54 a share
from its previous bid of 48.50, leapfrogging a 52 per share offer
from a rival bidding group led by Vornado Realty Trust .
For more on the Equity Office takeover, click here .
For complete coverage of the World Economic Forum in Davos , go to the Davos Diary home page .
Advertisement
Cardinal Health ,
a provider of products and services to the health care industry, said
Thursday it had agreed to sell its pharmaceutical technologies and
services business to the Blackstone Group for 3.3 billion.
Go to News Release from Cardinal Health
Siemens , the German engineering company, agreed Wednesday to buy the software maker UGS for 3.5 billion, including debt, and separately announced plans to spin off its VDO automotive unit.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News via The New York Times
Japanese office equipment maker Ricoh will buy I.B.M. 's digital commercial printer operations for about 700 million in April, the Nikkei reported.
Go to Article from Reuters
Time Warner is expected to announce Thursday that it will sell 18 magazines, including Field Stream and Outdoor Life, to the Bonnier Group , a Swedish publisher, for less than 300 million, The New York Post reported.
Go to Article from The New York Post
Pharmacy benefits manager Caremark Rx on Tuesday sent a letter to its shareholders urging them to vote for its pending merger with drugstore operator CVS .
Go to Article from The Associated Press via The Chicago Tribune
Disgruntled minority shareholders of Shell Canada threatened Wednesday to fight on in court if Royal Dutch Shell succeeds in buying out its Canadian subsidiary at 45 a share.
Go to Article from The Globe and Mail
Endesa ,
the target of a 36.5 billion euro takeover battle, beat its 2006 profit
forecast and laid out profit estimates for the next three years
including a higher goal for 2009, days before the German utility E.ON and Gas Natural were to make their final offers.
Go to Article from The International Herald Tribune
Nestle , the maker of Haagen Dazs ice cream, agreed to purchase the Eskimo Pie and Chipwich ice cream brands from CoolBrands International to increase its share of the global market.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
General Dynamics , the largest maker of armored vehicles for the United States military, said Wednesday that fourth quarter profit rose on acquisitions, but sales missed analysts' estimates.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News via The New York Times
Merrill Lynch 's
chief executive, E. Stanley O'Neal, made more than 48 million last
year, an increase of 30 percent from 2005, the company said Wednesday
in a regulatory filing.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News via The New York Times
GLG Partners , a European hedge fund manager, and Deutsche Bank, Germany 's biggest bank, were fined by the French market regulator for trading abuses stemming from a convertible bond sale in 2002.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News via The New York Times
TD Banknorth , the U.S. consumer banking unit of Toronto Dominion Bank , said fourth quarter profit rose 50 percent on increased deposits from its purchase of Hudson United Bancorp.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
The American Stock Exchange said Thursday it hired investment bank Morgan Stanley to
advise it on a demutualization plan as well as "potential strategic
future initiatives." Demutualization could be a step toward an initial
public offering of the exchange.
Go to Press Release from the American Stock Exchange via PRNewswire
The launch of Time Warner Cable shares on the public market faces yet another delay after a federal judge yesterday blocked Adelphia Communications , the cable television company, from moving ahead with its 15 billion plan to emerge from bankruptcy protection.
Go to Article from Reuters via The New York Times
Meruelo Maddux Properties , the largest landlord in downtown Los Angeles ,
raised 400 million Wednesday in an initial public stock offering
intended to capitalize on investors' widespread demand for commercial
real estate.
Go to Article from The Los Angeles Times
Bank of America
on Wednesday said its board of directors authorized the repurchase of
up to 200 million additional common shares, and will allow management
to spend 14 billion over the next 12 to 18 months to buy back stock.
Go to Article from Reuters via CNN Money
Venture
capitalists may have a new ally in their rush to invest in clean
technologies: President Bush. As the president outlined an aggressive
plan to reduce gasonline use by 20 percent within a decade through a
mandatory fuels standard, several V.C.'s said that their investments in
ethanol and other environmentally friendly fuels could pay off and
help the United States meet that goal. Companies like Khosla Ventures invested more than 2.9 billion in clean tech in 2006, according to the Cleantech Venture Network.
Go to Article from The Deal
3i Group , a London based private equity and venture capital firm, said Thursday that it formed a new division and opened a New York office as part of a plan to increase its investments in United States
companies. The firm said its U.S. Growth Capital team will typically
make investments of 20 million to 200 million in privately owned
companies.
Go to Press Release from 3i via PRNewswire
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts ' recent deal to invest 700 million in Sun Microsystems
shows how Kohlberg, a giant private equity firm, got special access to
a public company the average Joe cannot hope for, Breakingviews writes.
Go to Article from Breakingviews
J.W. Childs Associates ,
a Boston based private equity firm, and members of Mattress Firm's
senior management team are acquiring the company from majority
shareholder Sun Capital Partners .
Go to Article from The Houston Chronicle
Delphi said
it had signed an agreement for an investment of up to 3.4 billion by a
bloc of hedge funds that will take a controlling stake in the auto
parts maker as it emerges from bankruptcy.
Go to Article from Reuters via The International Herald Tribune
Maurice R. Greenberg's Starr International will take a 50 percent stake in a 1 billion yuan ( 129 million) private equity fund to invest in Chinese companies.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
Irish billionaire Tony O'Reilly revived his 3.8 billion Australian dollars ( 2.97 billion) takeover offer for APN News Media , Australia 's fourth largest media company, after luring Carlyle Group to his buyout group.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
Hewlett Packard
is once again at the center of a cloak and dagger brouhaha. A former
H.P. executive accused by the company of stealing trade secrets is now
saying that he was instructed by the company's management to spy on
rival Dell , CNET News.com reported.
Go to Article from CNET News.com
Top New York
law firms are leapfrogging each other to recruit talent by raising
salaries for first year associates. The latest bump up has attracted a
lot of attention in legal circles, and raised some questions as well.
Go to Item from DealBook
Hedge
fund money, which now exceeds 1 trillion, has emerged in the last
several years as a potentially powerful force in politics, as
underscored by the significant role it is playing in the presidential
aspirations of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Rudolph W. Giuliani,
The New York
Times' Landon Thomas Jr. reports. During the 2006 election cycle,
executives who work at the 30 biggest hedge funds made 2.8 million in
contributions to political candidates or party committees, almost
double the amount in 2000.
Go to Article from The New York Times
Go to Related Item on DealBook
Go to Related Item on DealBook
Amaranth Advisors ,
the hedge fund that collapsed last year after losing more than 6
billion in energy markets, has returned more than half of its remaining
capital, Market watch reports, citing a letter the firm sent to
investors earlier this month.
Go to Article from MarketWatch
Dealboard
Tool Resources
GET QUOTES
by Name or Symbol:
Look Up Symbol
Join the Discussion
Share your thoughts about today's Dealbook news in the readers' forum.
Research Suite
Portfolio
Company Research
U.S. Markets
International Markets
Mutual Funds
Send a Tip or Feedback
E mail us at
dealbook nytimes.com
COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
News Features
Property Listings
Sales
Leases
Search by Keyword:
List Your Property
Property E Mail Alerts
Building Photo Guide
Click here to
Receive 50 off
of Home Delivery of The New York Times Newspaper.
Only GOP is the anti jihad party?
By Jeff Jacoby
http: www.JewishWorldReview.com The surge is underway, and more rapidly than many of us were expecting. The influx of new troops into Iraq? No, of candidates into the 2008 presidential contest.
So far this month, Senators Hillary Clinton of New York, Barack Obama of Illinois, and Chris Dodd of Connecticut, plus Governor Bill Richardson of New Mexico Democrats all have formally launched White House campaigns (or "exploratory committees"). Already in the race were former senators John Edwards of North Carolina and Mike Gravel of Alaska, former governor Tom Vilsack of Iowa, and Ohio Congressman Dennis Kucinich.
Eight Democrats, eight would be commanders in chief all running for president in a time of war. So which of them, on getting into the race, had this to say about the nature of the enemy confronting us?
"We are engaged in a war against an axis of Islamists, extremists, and terrorists. It is an axis of evil. It has headquarters in Tehran and Waziristan. But because of the unconventional nature of this war, it also has headquarters in cities throughout Europe and Asia and Africa and the United States of America, in cells that operate in the shadows but are prepared to strike us again as they did on September 11th, 2001.
"The enemy we are fighting is . . . totalitarian. It is inhumane. It has a violent ideology and a goal of expansionism and totalitarianism. It threatens our security, our values, our way of life as seriously, in my opinion, as fascism and communism did in the last century."
Can't match that assessment of the global jihad with the Democratic candidate who uttered it? Don't feel bad; it was a trick question. Those words were actually spoken by Senator Joseph Lieberman at an American Enterprise Institute forum on Iraq this month. Lieberman shared the podium with GOP colleague John McCain, who was no less blunt in his evaluation of the war and its stakes.
For McCain, a Republican presidential hopeful, the struggle against the Islamists is the paramount issue of the day. His campaign website, while spare, highlights a recent speech in which McCain called stopping radical Islam "our most important moral obligation." He described the jihadists as "moral monsters but . . . also a disciplined, dedicated movement driven by an apocalyptic religious zeal, which celebrates martyrdom and murder." We are in a battle with "those who would shackle humanity, especially women, in a feudal theocracy," McCain said. "We cannot afford to take a holiday from history."
Sounding nearly as resolute is former governor Mitt Romney, whose campaign website puts "Defeating the Jihadists" first in its list of key campaign issues. "The jihadists are waging a global war against the United States and its allies," Romney is quoted as saying, "with the ambition of replacing legitimate governments with a caliphate a theocracy." Speaking in Israel Tuesday, Romney asserted that "a central purpose of NATO should be to defeat radical Islam," through means both military and ideological.
The Democratic candidates, by contrast, are virtually silent on the subject.
Barack Obama launched his exploratory committee with an online video that mentioned the economy, healthcare, vanishing pensions, college costs, and the fractiousness of partisan politics. His only nod to national security was a passing reference to the war in Iraq, which he opposes. But 9 11 and its aftermath? The worldwide jihad? The global conflict between democratic freedom and Taliban style repression? Not a word.
Hillary Clinton's highly praised kickoff video likewise included nothing about the overriding threat of our time. Her website does contain a speech she gave at the Council on Foreign Relations last October, but it is filled with windy rhetoric about diplomacy and international conferences and how we must address the "troubled conditions terrorists seek out." New Yorkers don't need to be told "that we are in a war against terrorists who seek to do us harm," Clinton says. But if she recognizes that the future of the civilized world depends on winning that war, she shows little sign of it.
What is true of Obama and Clinton is more or less true of Edwards, Richardson, and the others. The Democrats seem prepared to emulate John Kerry, who insisted in 2004 that "we have to get back to the place we were" before 9 11. Back, that is, to treating Islamist terrorism not as "the focus of our lives," but merely as "a nuisance" that we need "to reduce" like gambling, he said, or prostitution.
Heading into the 2008 campaign, our political universe is still divided. On one side are those who see the Islamists as a nuisance to be controlled. On the other: those who regard them as an existential enemy to be destroyed. On the relative strength of those two camps, the next election may well depend.
It is beginning to look like the major presidential candidates could be Hillary and Rudy. That brings to mind the question, if Hillary becomes our president will Bill be the "First Gentleman?" If Rudy is elected will his third wife become the "First Lady?"
I appeared today at the peace rally in Washington and want to report to you that there is tremendous energy out there. Celebrities joined many activists and Members of Congress to call for an end to the fighting now. There was a very big crowd on the mall and most media coverage has been pretty positive.
Jane Fonda returned to the peace movement, calling upon Americans not to forget the lessons of Vietnam. I had a chance to speak to Sean Penn and Tim Robbins, who have also used their celebrity as movie stars to bring the media focus to the growing anti war movement.
PDA, Code Pink and the Institute of Policy Studies all made significant contributions to the events today.
But perhaps the most powerful voices heard today were those from military families, grieving for lost loved ones. Their personal stories cut at your heart like nothing else.
I spoke with some filmmakers doing a piece for the Huffington Post today so I am hoping that you may get to hear directly from some of these military families on the pages here later.
So, as we take stock of our efforts today, I wanted to sum up the myriad of challenges that lay before us and the opportunities we have to make things right again in this country.
The Bush Administration has given us:
Voter Intimidation and suppression and worse costing us two presidential elections.
The Downing Street Minutes, manipulation of intelligence, and going to war under false pretenses.
Outing a CIA agent as an act of political revenge.
Warrantless wiretapping, outside of the law and the Constitution, and creating an unauthorized data base of millions of innocent Americans.
Abu Ghraib, Guantanamo Bay, waterboarding, and other forms of illegal torture.
Racial Profiling, Rendition, and Secret Prisons.
An imperial president who takes it upon himself to issue signing statements which change the law to take away our rights.
Intimidating the press, and firing government whistleblowers.
Operating a government in secret, above the law and outside of court or congressional scrutiny.
More than 3,000 Americans dead, scores of thousands of Iraqi's dead, hundreds of thousands wounded, and a cost of more than one trillion dollars.
And now a massive escalation, disguised as a "surge," with no end in sight.
Today, and every day, we need to let this President know and let the Congress know that we have had enough.
http: feeds.huffingtonpost.com r huffingtonpost raw_feed 3 82600019 peace movement strong on _b_39797.html
Tomorrow is the concert!
And speaking of tomorrows, I see that Hillary Clinton has truly thrown her hat into the next presidential race. Whether or not you like her as an individual candidate, I have heard many people speculate about whether or not America is ready for a woman president. Or a black one. I think that now is the best possible time for these limits to be pushed. Right now, we are experiencing the most obvious evidence that the white men of America have grown complacent with their political dominance. They need to see that there is something on the horizon which will threaten their old hat ways of looking at the state of the union as it pertains to business and war. A fresh voice, one from a minority of any kind, is likely to bring to the table a new perspective on what this country can and should be. A viewpoint that may actually place domestic problems on the front burner, or even offer a more constituency focused agenda. At least, I hope this could be true.
I like that Hillary is running. And I like that Barack Obama is running. Although, I hope that if he doesn't win he will still be just gearing up in his political career and will still work to usher in political changes.
There are many ways in which Hillary is a bit too been there done that, and could be tainted by her political experience. But at the same time, as First Lady she travelled to many different countries, spoke with many foreign diplomats and leaders, and got a first hand taste of what the world thinks and feels about us. She knows who to talk to and what issues can be fought. I think her health care reform plans were abruptly and prematurely cut short. I think it is exciting that she might have another chance. (Dad, settle down. Your blood pressure is rising.)
On the other hand, Obama brings a freshness that may make him the untainted leader that this country is begging and bleeding to have in office. His inexperience is a hurdle that time can overcome. But you can't unlearn the political process, and you can't un owe political favors. He may be a clean slate upon which we can begin to write the story of a new tomorrow for America.
So far, even though I have been watching, I have yet to hear of a Republican presidential candidate who has the kind of ideas that could excite me. I would be so glad to hear of someone who would. I hold out hope that this next and very pivotal election season will yield a crop of candidates with the hubris to speak their minds about what is not right in the world today and what can be different. I am not talking about the war, necessarily. Even though the war is going to hijack the issues during this election, and gay marriage will likely be made an issue by the short sighted and divisive Republicans who feel that divide and conquer is the only way they can win, the real issues in this election should be issues of healing in this country. Healthcare reform. Educational issues. Social programs that will effectively make people independent. Effective law enforcement. All of the ways we need to make ourselves better.
It is awfully egocentric of us to walk around carrying a big stick when in our wake we have escalating poverty rates, a shortage of affordable housing, unemployment, and incredible issues with our insurance industry across the board. Who are we to tell everyone that they should wanna be like us? Seriously?
I know it is a bit early to get into the ugly political brouhaha that is undoubtedly on its way. And believe me, I am not looking forward to it. But it is so important.
You know what I wish? I wish the candidates, across the board, would all agree to create a webpage, like a blog or even just a formatted page on the party websites, but a page apiece where internet savvy voters can view a candidate's biography, working background, positions on a few political topics (chosen by the candidate, because what they choose says as much as what they say about it), and maybe even posts some of their speeches. Imagine having that kind of one stop access to information about candidates. Not the information filtered through at the last minute before heading to the polls, not the heated and protracted discussions in the debates, and not the sensational stories presented by the media left, right, and center. Just the candidate, in the candidate's own words (such as they are), for the people.
What a radical idea.
I have just seen news reports that Mike Huckabee has officially thrown his hat into the ring for the 2008 Presidential campaign. I have been anticipating this move for several months and I am glad to see that he is running. Much will be made of the fact that Governor Huckabee is an ordained Southern Baptist Minister, but I know from personal experience that ministering in churches might give him a great advantage in dealing with criticism that is leveled at the President of the United States! Here in the early stages, he has my support, but I will wait to see his over all platform before I go "all in." This man is certainly no Pat Robertson(this is a good thing) and has won 2 landslide elections in a Democratic state. This shows that he is able to work in a bi partisan manner. He has also been a proponent of several issues that hit close to home like health care provisions for the working poor in his state and increased funding for schools. He also seems to have been a "fat preacher", lost 110 lbs and adopted a healthier lifestyle.
I have spent this entire weekend attending my "Freedom of Expression" class. This class dealt mostly with the First Amendment and the topic of separation of church and state came up more than a few times. It will be interesting to see the public response to the fact that he is a former minister. I will be paying close attention to this response and I will blog about the gulf between the general public's view of the establishment clause and the actual case law. I will also watch this campaign closely and try and decide whether or not it will affect my own run for President someday. If he actually gets elected then the question is: "Will the American people elect 2 Baptist preachers back to back or nearly back to back? I could potentially run for President in 16 years. If he does not get elected, then does this mean that a Baptist preacher is unelectable? What would be nice is to fall into the race like Obama. The guy has not done much of anything but has turned into a superstar overnight.
Who knows, maybe by 2024 the coffeehouse hipster vote will put me over the top. I would also depend on the Bald American vote. Who was the last bald president? For that matter, was there ever a German American that was president? All my kids except Eleanor (She graduates in 2026) will be out of the house by then, so only she would get to live in the white house. Now Tracy as First Lady....that topic deserves its own entry!
Sunday, January 28, 2007
Compiled 2 AM E.T. In This E Mail:
World U.S. Washington Business Technology
Sports Arts New York Region Magazine Editorials Op Ed
Customize Today's Headlines Search
TOP STORIES
Advertisement
Saudi Officials Seek to Temper the Price of Oil
BY JAD MOUAWAD
Saudi Arabia has signaled that it is committed to keeping oil at around 50 a barrel down 27 a barrel from its summer peak.
In Law School, Obama Found Political Voice
By JODI KANTOR
Barack Obama arrived at Harvard Law School as an unknown; by the time he left, he had become a political sensation.
NEWS ANALYSIS
On Iran, Bush Faces Haunting Echoes of Iraq
By DAVID E. SANGER
As the president and his aides calibrate how directly to confront Iran, they insist that their warnings are not a prelude to war.
NYTimes.com Homepage
Back to Top
QUOTATION OF THE DAY
"There s nothing like being hungry for the sport of tennis, and I was really eager and famished, and I needed to feed."
SERENA WILLIAMS, who won the Australian Open.
NEW YORK REGION
Audio Slide Show: A Cleric s Journey to the Suburbs
Sheik Reda Shata discusses his new mosque in New Jersey, a world away from Brooklyn, where he toiled for almost four years. Related Article This Land: Restoring Dignity to Sitting Bull, Wherever He Is
The famous American Indian has never received the respect in death that was often denied him in life, writes Dan Barry. Columnist Page
WORLD
Israel May Have Violated Arms Pact, U.S. Officials Say
By DAVID S. CLOUD and GREG MYRE
At issue is Israel s use of American supplied cluster munitions during its fight in Lebanon last summer.
Virulent TB in South Africa May Imperil Millions
By MICHAEL WINES
The disease could spread to neighboring countries and prove hugely expensive to contain, experts warned.
Despite Crackdown, Migrants Stream Into South Mexico
By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.
Mexico has taken measures to slow the flow across its southern border, but much remains to be done.
More World News
Back to Top
U.S.
THIS LAND
Restoring Dignity to Sitting Bull, Wherever He Is
By DAN BARRY
A vandalized monument stands as a testament that the famous American Indian has never received the respect in death that was often denied him in life.
Giuliani Is Sounding More Like a Candidate
By RICHARD
P REZ PE A
Speaking to a convention of the New Hampshire Republican Party, Rudolph W. Giuliani repeatedly talked about the prospect of running.
Clinton, in Iowa, Vows to Renew the Promise of America
By PATRICK HEALY
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton asked Iowa Democrats on Saturday to help her become the nation s first female leader.
More U.S. News
Back to Top
WASHINGTON
nytimes.com movies
Who has been nominated for an Oscar?
Also in Movies:
Photos of the nominees
The Carpetbagger blogs about the nominees Continuous coverage of the Oscars season
Protest Focuses on Iraq Troop Increase
By IAN URBINA
Tens of thousands of protesters converged on the National Mall in Washington in a show of antiwar sentiment.
Giuliani Is Sounding More Like a Candidate
By RICHARD P REZ PE A
Speaking to a convention of the New Hampshire Republican Party, Rudolph W. Giuliani repeatedly talked about the prospect of running.
Clinton, in Iowa, Vows to Renew the Promise of America
By PATRICK HEALY
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton asked Iowa Democrats on Saturday to help her become the nation s first female leader.
More Washington News
Back to Top
BUSINESS
Preaching From the Ballmer Pulpit
By STEVE LOHR
Can Microsoft thrive in a new digital era? In the worldview of Steven A. Ballmer, the company s chief executive, failure is not an option.
RE: FRAMING
Someone (Other Than You) May Own Your Genes
By DENISE CARUSO
Is it time to consider an alternative to patenting life forms?
SPENDING
24 Rolls of Toilet Paper, a Tub of Salsa and a Plasma TV
By JULIE BICK
It s more than impulse buying. It is a calculated part of the company s business plan. Call it the Costco effect.
More Business News
Back to Top
TECHNOLOGY
Preaching From the Ballmer Pulpit
By STEVE LOHR
Can Microsoft thrive in a new digital era? In the worldview of Steven A. Ballmer, the company s chief executive, failure is not an option.
SLIPSTREAM
Awaiting the Day When Everyone Writes Software
By JASON PONTIN
Too many software programs are ugly: inelegant, unreliable and not very useful. Software that
satisfies and delights is as rare as a phoenix.
VIDEO GAMES
Video Game Tests the Limits. The Limits Win.
By HEATHER CHAPLIN
Some say Super Columbine Massacre Role Playing Game! critiques the culture behind a tragedy. Others are just disgusted by it.
More Technology News
Back to Top
SPORTS
SUPER BOWL XLI
From the Flats to the Pinnacle, Smith Savoring the Ride
By JOHN BRANCH
Driving home in the well groomed Chicago suburbs after winning the N.F.C. championship, Lovie Smith reflected on how broad the distance was from Soldier Field to his hometown in East Texas.
AUSTRALIAN OPEN
After Times of Grief and Doubt, a Tennis Ace Is Hungry
Again
By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY
After a triumphant victory at the Australian Open, Serena Williams is back on the cutting edge of tennis.
U.S. FIGURE SKATING CHAMPIONSHIPS
Meissner, Helped by Early Lead, Holds on for Title
By LYNN ZINSER
Kimmie Meissner did not skate
the triumphant long program she had hoped for, but she stayed ahead of a shaky field to win her first national title.
More Sports News
Back to Top
ARTS
ARCHITECTURE
Rehabilitating Robert Moses
By ROBIN POGREBIN
With New York poised for a building boom, the legacy of Robert Moses is getting a fresh look, and maybe he doesn t look so bad.
MUSIC
The Maestro of Spaghetti Westerns Takes a Bow
By JON PARELES
Ennio Morricone continues to create music that is as memorable as the films it accompanies, and sometimes more so.
TELEVISION
Hey Now: It s Garry Shandling s Obsession
By JACQUES STEINBERG
Nine years after The Larry Sanders Show, Garry Shandling is finally moving on by putting his experience to bed between the covers of his DVD.
More Arts News
Back to Top
NEW YORK REGION
AN IMAM IN AMERICA
A Cleric s Journey Leads to a Suburban Frontier
By ANDREA ELLIOTT
Sheik Reda Shata s new mosque in New Jersey is a world away from Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, where he toiled for almost four years.
Pfizer s Birthplace, Soon Without Pfizer
By ANDY NEWMAN
The drug giant will shut its plant on Flushing Avenue in Brooklyn, but still plans to help the neighborhood where the company began.
For Hevesi Prosecutor, One Standard of Justice
By DANNY HAKIM
P. David Soares is now taking on one of the most durable political machines in America: the elected officials of Albany.
More New York Region News
Back to Top
MAGAZINE
Unhappy Meals
By MICHAEL POLLAN
Thirty years of nutritional science has made Americans sicker, fatter and less well nourished. A plea for a return to plain old food.
The First Dance
By MARK OPPENHEIMER
One small Christian college finds that there may be some redemption in being footloose after all.
Whose Iran?
By LAURA SECOR
President Ahmadinejad may not be all that popular. And the tension between theocracy and
democracy may be reaching a crisis.
More Magazine News
Back to Top
EDITORIALS
The Budget Illusion
President Bush s tax cuts should largely be allowed to expire. Facing that truth is not a fiscal challenge, it s a political one.
Saving Lebanon
In the interest of stabilizing Lebanon, the Bush administration needs to drop its stubborn resistance to diplomacy with Syria and try to coax Damascus away from both Iran and Hezbollah.
New York s Public Schools
Reforms that affect the lives of more than a million schoolchildren should not be made in haste or on the basis of consultants hunches.
EDITORIAL OBSERVER
The George W. Bush Library: Scholarly Mecca or 500 Million Oxymoron?
By DOROTHY SAMUELS
The proposed presidential library at Southern Methodist University raises issues that touch on the writing of history, the university s scholarly mission, governmental integrity and the rule of law.
More Editorials
Back to Top
OP ED
OP ED COLUMNIST
Hillary Clinton s Mission Unaccomplished
By FRANK RICH
Mrs. Clinton has always been a follower of public opinion on the war, not a leader.
OP ED COLUMNIST
Parting Ways in Iraq
By DAVID BROOKS
In Iraq, logic, circumstances and politics are leading inexorably toward soft partition.
OP ED COLUMNIST
A Choice for Darfur
By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Incredibly, the job of leading the African Union may go to Sudan s blood drenched president, Omar al Bashir, architect of the genocide in Darfur.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
Unsafe at Any Level
By MICHAEL SIEGEL
The problem isn t
whether or not nicotine levels are increasing; it s that this deadly, addictive product is available in the first place.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
The Lottery s Next Big Loser: Illinois
By EDWARD UGEL
In seeking to get out of the lottery business, Illinois isn t acting on moral principle, but in fact succumbing to the lure of easy money that has brought so many lottery winners to ruin.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
Crash Test Dummies
By JOAN CLAYBROOK
How Consumer Reports made its mistake in testing infant car seats is instructive not only for the magazine but for everyone who cares about public safety.
Go to Editorials Op Ed
Back to Top
ON THIS DAY
On Jan. 28, 1986, space shuttle Challenger exploded 73 seconds after liftoff from Cape Canaveral, killing all seven crew members. See this front
page
Buy this front page
Back to Top
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy
InternetElect News. Briefly . InternetElectPress InternetElectVideo InternetElect InterElect
No need to miss a message. Get email on the go
with Yahoo! Mail for Mobile. Get started.
Pamela of Atlas Shrugs writes about suicidal American Jews :
The dis honor of America Jewry
Caroline Glick takes on jewicidal American Jews self loathing, "enlightened" and reminiscent of the German Jew before the "extermination." It's open season on the Jews and the Islamists here in America can smell blood, as evidenced here .
Glick ran it in the Jewish Press. One can only hope that those Jewish schmucks that vote Democrat (87 of Jews vote Democratic!) read it and think. JEWS PAY ATTENTION TO THIS . The link to Caroline Glick's article follows:
It would seem that American Jewry has lost its sense of honor. In early 1984, as he sought the Democratic nomination for the presidency, civil rights leader Jesse Jackson made a major misstep. In a conversation with African American Washington Post reporter Milton Coleman, Jackson referred to Jews as Hymies, and to New York City as Hymietown.
When the remarks were reported, a storm of protest erupted. Jewish leaders and organizations issued uniform demands that Jackson publicly apologize for his remarks. Jackson accused Jews of conspiring to defeat him. Appearing on a radio broadcast with the notorious anti Semite and Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, Jackson was silent as Farrakhan threatened Coleman and then issued a public warning to Jews: If you harm this brother Jackson , it will be the last one you harm.
Yet the Jews of America did not relent. And the U.S. media also did not relent. In February 1984, Jackson belatedly issued a public apology to Jews in a synagogue in New Hampshire. But his electoral prospects had dried up by that point. When he ran again for president four years later, then New York mayor Ed Koch said ahead of the New York Democratic primary, Jews and supporters of Israel who are not Jewish would be crazy to vote for him. Jackson lost big in New York and shortly thereafter retreated from the race.
Compare the properly angry and unforgiving response of American Jewry in 1984 to the American Jewish response earlier in the month when General Wesley Clark made a similar anti Semitic slur in remarks to the press. Clark, who ran in the Democratic presidential primaries in 2004 and has made noises about another run in 2008, expressed his anger to popular left wing blogger Arianna Huffington over reports that the Bush administration may order preemptive military strikes against Iran s nuclear installations.
When asked why he felt that the administration is heading in that direction, Clark responded, You just have to read what's in the Israeli press. The Jewish community is divided but there is so much pressure being channeled from the New York money people to the office seekers.
Clark s anti Semitic attack received precious little attention in the mainstream media. Jewish organizations have uttered no significant outcries against him. Clark put the remark behind him by writing an abject letter to Anti Defamation League National Director Abe Foxman, but the ADL s website makes no mention of the incident.
From the perspective of the American Jewish leadership, apparently, Clark s obscene attack on Jews was a non incident.
Unfortunately, Clark s attack was anything but unique. Indeed, it fits into a larger trend in which politicians and public figures feel an unacceptable level of comfort in attacking Jews and accusing both Israel and its American Jewish supporters of nefariously subverting America s national interest in order to advance Israel s security interests. Read it all . When will my fellow Jews in this country finally realize who their friends are? As for Clark's controversy, the irony of it is that Clark is himself essentially half Jewish . Among anti Semites, those with the hint of Jewish blood are often the worst. It's like they want to prove to themselves and everybody else their anti Semitic bona fides. For example, the ruthless inquisitor Torquemada had Jewish roots . Another example is Karl Marx , who promoted the anti Semitic stereotypes of the worst kind .
Just a quick laugh. Having a particularly 'not enjoyable' day today, so the laugh was needed.
For the few people that actually read my space. . . I'll get it together soon. I promise.
Top Ten Ways This Country Would Be Different
If Hillary Clinton Were President
10. Tax breaks for pantsuits
9. Secretary of the Interior? Martha Stewart
8. Oil drilling begins in Crawford, Texas
7. First president who kisses men since Nixon. It's true look it up, people
6. Extra Secret Service agents assigned to guard Bill's pants
5. Vice President no longer allowed to get drunk and shoot a guy
4. For once Air Force One would stop and ask for directions, am I right ladies?
3. Presidential approval ratings above 20
2. Four more years of old Bill Clinton sex jokes on the "Late Show"
1. President's affair with female intern would be way hotter
Top Ten EXTRAS
Health care plan to be determined by cast of "Grey's Anatomy"
With world on brink of war, President huddles with her girlfriends and pint of Haagen Dazs
Strategy for fighting terrorists: the icy cold shoulder
N U C L E A R would go back to being pronounced "nuclear"
News Alert: Israel 9th of Sh'vat 5767
Sunday 28 January 2007
Berlin: Hundreds call for solidarity with Israel
Jerusalem Post Jerusalem,Israel
Several hundred demonstrators marched to Berlin's Holocaust memorial Sunday to call for solidarity with Israel against threats from Iran's hardline ...
See all stories on this topic
Why Israel should talk to Hamas
The New Nation Bangladesh
A recent survey had 72 per cent of Palestinians wanting their leaders to sign a peace treaty with Israel . Meanwhile, assorted members of Israel's cabinet ...
See all stories on this topic
Israel's Arab problem hits home
Salon USA
Tensions are rising between Israel's Jewish and Arab citizens and could affect the chances for peace, or wider war, in the Middle East. By Gregory Levey ...
See all stories on this topic
Smokin Aces Review
411mania.com Sugar Land,TX,USA
Set in Las Vegas, Nevada, the tale begins with mob boss Primo Sparazza preparing to whack the shady magician named Buddy Aces Israel (Jeremy Piven). ...
See all stories on this topic
World won t be let indifferent to calls for Israel destruction
The News International Pakistan
OCCUPIED AL QUDS: Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, in a thinly veiled reference to Iran, said on Sunday that Israel would not allow the world to be ...
See all stories on this topic
Israel parliament considering open presidential ballot after ...
JURIST USA
... Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's official profile reluctance to move forward Israel National News report until the bill's odds of passing improve. ...
See all stories on this topic
US attacks Israel's cluster bomb use
Independent London,England,UK
The controversy about Israel's use of cluster bombs during its conflict with Hizbollah in July last year will reopen today when the US State Department ...
See all stories on this topic
To be anti Israel , root for Zionism
Arab American News Dearbom,MI,USA
New peace talks between Israel and Palestine will end up the same way they have in the past: with no agreement and a return to violence. ...
See all stories on this topic
Israel Welcomes UN Resolution Condemning Holocaust Denial
Journal Chr tien Paris,France
JERUSALEM BUDAPEST Israel s Foreign Ministry has welcomed a United Nations General Assembly resolution condemning the denial of the Holocaust, ...
See all stories on this topic
Israel gets first Muslim minister
Pakistan Dawn Karachi,Pakistan
JERUSALEM, Jan 28: Israel appointed its first Muslim minister on Sunday, a step which, he said, would help its Arab citizens identify more strongly with the ...
See all stories on this topic
NYTimes HTML E Mail
Search NYTimes.com Today's News Past Week Past 30 Days Past 90 Days Past Year Since 1996
Monday, January 29, 2007
The Hard Rain That's Falling on Capitalism
By BEN STEIN
You may be a businessman or some high degree thief, They may call you doctor or they may call you chief But you're gonna have to serve somebody, yes indeed You're gonna have to serve somebody, Well, it may be the devil or it may be the Lord But you're gonna have to serve somebody. Bob Dylan, "Gotta Serve Somebody" A few
evenings ago, my wife and I were standing in the kitchen of our home in Rancho Mirage, Calif., feeding our voracious hounds, when a song came on the radio. It goes, "If only you believe in miracles, baby, so would I ... " Suddenly a flood of thoughts came into my head. I put on my swim trunks, and even though it was 42 degrees outside, I got into my superheated pool and swam, looking up at the stars, and this is what I thought: My whole life is a miracle so far. I live in glorious houses tar paper shacks by hedge fund standards, but plenty for me. I have a great American made car. Above all, I have the most wonderful wife and the handsomest son on the planet. My parents had a great, super life. They went from obscurity and lower middle class status in the Great
Depression to fame and fortune in the postwar period. Their good fate was attributable mostly to their genius and hard work, but also to two culprits usually criticized in the media: President Richard M. Nixon, who made my father famous and powerful, and variable annuities, which made him and my mom well to do. Thanks to Nixon's appointing Pop as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers and to TIAA CREF selling Mom and Pop those annuities, their latter decades were happy and comfy. (In the interest of full disclosure, I am the honorary spokesman for the National Retirement Planning Coalition, one of whose many sponsors is the National Association for Variable Annuities.) All of the miracles of our lives are because of America and our ancestors' lucky, brilliant decision to move here from the desperation of Eastern Europe. All of
it is thanks to the brave men and women who fought and died and bled on World War II battlefields like Anzio and Tarawa to keep us free, and to the framers of the Constitution. But it's also thanks to capitalism. I realized this as I swam back and forth in my pool looking up at the stars and the contrails. Under capitalism, my grandparents, my parents and I could be paid the value of what we produced. Their (our) income and position in life were (are) a function of what value we could add, not of the status of poor stateless Jews that we would have been in Europe. Capitalism values people as individuals according to contract, as we lawyers and economists learn, not according to the status of our birth. This in itself is a miracle. This miracle has been vibrant in the lives of hundreds of millions of Americans who have gone from nothing to something, thanks to the dynamics of capitalism. They have seen their pay rise and they have been able to convert their sweat and toil and creativity into capital by saving and investing in the stock market and becoming capitalists themselves myself. The system of capitalism is wide open. If you have an idea, you can turn it into capital. But, as I swam and watched the private jets' lights as they glided right above my head into Palm Springs International Airport, I had a chilling thought: in capitalism, the most fundamental building block is trust. When yeoman farmers sent their savings to banks in London and Glasgow and Paris, they had to be able to count on it not being stolen. That was what allowed capital to be accumulated and deployed, and for the entire world economy to take off. When I see what the top dogs at all too many corporations are now doing to that trust, I feel queasy. Outrageous yes, obscene pay. Greedy backdating of stock options, which in my opinion is straight up theft. Managers buying assets from their trustors, the stockholders, at pennies on the dollar, then forestalling competing bids with lockups and insane breakup fees. These misdeeds and many, many more are hammer blows at the granite foundation of trust we built in the 1940s and '50s. How long
democratic capitalism can survive these blows before it gives in and gives birth to revolution or to an out and out aristocracy, I am not sure. Empires come and go. Economic systems come and go. There is no heavenly guarantee that capitalism will last forever as we know it. If that trust disappears if the system is no longer a system for the ordinary citizen but only for the tough guys how much longer can the miracle last? EACH day's newspaper, it seems, brings more tidings of unrestrained selfishness and self dealing and rafts of powerful people saying it's good for us to be robbed if only we truly understood the system. The problem
is, we're getting to understand it all too well. And there is no one in Washington absolutely no one to help.
nytimes.com movies
Complete coverage of the Golden Globes, the Oscars and everything in between Also in Movies:
Scenes from this year's most intriguing films Blogging Videos on all things Oscar
YOUR MONEY
Preaching From the Ballmer Pulpit
By STEVE LOHR
Can Microsoft thrive in a new digital era? In the worldview of Steven A. Ballmer, the company's chief executive, failure is not an option. Is the Fix Worse Than the
Problem?
By GRETCHEN MORGENSON
Past attempts to shrink executive pay have caused it to climb. 24 Rolls of Toilet Paper, a Tub of Salsa and a Plasma TV
By JULIE BICK
It's more than impulse buying. It is a calculated part of the company's business plan. Call it the Costco effect. The U.S. Is Losing Market Share. So What?
By DANIEL GROSS
The United States is losing market share in the global economy, and that is not necessarily a bad thing.
Now You, Too, Can Enter the World of 007 Finance
By JAMES PETHOKOUKIS
It's now possible for a do it yourself investor to tap a financial arsenal that was once readily available only to the pros.
TOOLBOX
Get Quotes by Name or Symbol
Look Up Symbol
Research Suite
Portfolio Company Research
U.S. Markets Int.
Markets
Mutual Funds Comments? Questions?
E mail us: feedback nytimes.com FROM THE GLOSSARY
Aggregation
Process in corporate financial planning whereby the smaller investment proposals of each of the firm's operational units are added up and in effect treated as a big picture.
More Business and Financial Terms ECONOMIC CALENDAR
Monday, January 29
No major economic reports are scheduled.
Tuesday, January 30
No major economic reports are scheduled.
Wednesday, January 31
8:30 a.m. Gross Domestic Product for Q4. Previous: 2.0 ; Expected: 3.0
Thursday, February 1
8:30 a.m. Initial Jobless Claims for week ended Jan. 27. Previous: 325,000; Expected: 315,000
8:30 a.m. Personal Income for Dec. Previous: 0.3 . Expected: 0.5
Friday,
February 2
8:30 a.m. Unemployment Rate. Previous: 4.5 ; Expected: 4.5
10:00 a.m. Factory Orders for Dec. Previous: 0.9 ; Expected: 1.8
Source: Dow Jones READERS' OPINIONS
Question of the Week
Which economic issues will play the biggest role in the 2008 presidential race?
More Business Forums
More Readers' Opinions
Get home delivery of The New York Times for as low as 3.15 a week.
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
InternetElect News. Briefly . InternetElectPress InternetElectVideo InternetElect InterElect
Don't pick lemons.
See all the new 2007 cars at Yahoo! Autos.
Monday, January 29, 2007
Compiled 2 AM E.T. In This E Mail:
World U.S. Washington Business Technology
Sports Arts New York Region Media Advertising Editorials Op Ed
Customize Today's Headlines Search
TOP STORIES
Advertisement
Iranian Reveals Plan to Expand Role in Iraq
By JAMES GLANZ
Iran s ambassador to Baghdad outlined a plan to expand its economic and military ties with Iraq that will almost certainly bring more conflict with the U.S.
250 Are Killed in Major Iraq Battle
By DAMIEN CAVE
An American helicopter was shot down in fighting near Najaf between gunmen and Iraqi forces backed by U.S. firepower.
Man Down : When One Bullet Alters Everything
By DAMIEN CAVE
On Haifa Street in Baghdad, the cost of an escalating street fight is painfully real for American soldiers.
NYTimes.com Homepage
Back to Top
QUOTATION OF THE DAY
"Urge the American companies to come here."
HASSAN KAZEMI QUMI, the Iranian ambassador to Iraq, on Iran s plans to begin its own reconstruction effort for its war torn neighbor.
POLITICS
Video: Tale of Two Clinton Campaigns
Hillary Clinton s message in Iowa over the weekend reflected lessons learned during her 2000 Senate race. Video: Giuliani in New Hampshire Sidebar: Truth and Consequences
A federal court is trying to decide when is it all right to punish people for telling the truth about matters of public concern, Adam Liptak writes. Columnist Page
WORLD
Sinn Fein Endorses Plan for Ulster Police Reforms
By EAMON QUINN
The move opens the way to restoring local rule through a government shared by Protestants and Catholics.
Saudi King Invites Palestinian Factions to Talks
By GREG MYRE
Hamas and
Fatah leaders said they would take up the invitation by the Saudi monarch, though no date was set.
A Serbian Region Unravels With Its Textile Industry
By NICHOLAS WOOD
While parts of Eastern Europe laboriously rebuilt their economies in the 1990s, and joined in European life, Serbia did not follow suit.
More
World News
Back to Top
U.S.
In Los Angeles, Antigang Efforts Start on the
Street
By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD
Law enforcement officials have stepped up efforts to combat gang violence as racial tensions escalate.
Students Join Freedom Riders on a History Trip
By THEO EMERY
College students accompanied veterans of the civil rights movement as four buses retraced segments of the 1961 Freedom Rides.
City That Loves Mass Transit Looks to the Sky for More
By WILLIAM YARDLEY
Portland s newest and most exotic form of public transportation the 57 million Portland Aerial Tram offers breath taking views.
More U.S. News
Back to Top
WASHINGTON
nytimes.com tech
How college students can download free music
Also in Technology:
David Pogue's ode to the Recording Industry Association of America Find the right MP3 player for you 10 most popular MP3 players
POLITICAL MEMO
Women Feeling Freer to Suggest Vote for Mom
By ROBIN TONER
The new politics of maternity strike down the notion that women seeking office have to play down their softer, domestic sides.
Feeding Frenzy for a Big Story, Even if It s False
By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK
The first anonymous smear of the 2008 presidential race illustrated how easily dubious information can spread.
SIDEBAR
Weighing the Consequences of Telling Others the Truth
By ADAM LIPTAK
Judges are trying to decide on a
pressing constitutional question. When is it all right to punish people for telling the truth about matters of public concern?
More Washington News
Back to Top
BUSINESS
Levi s Turns to Suing Its Rivals
By MICHAEL BARBARO and JULIE CRESWELL
The design for a Levi s pocket, first used 133 years ago, has become the biggest legal battleground in U.S. fashion.
Dreamgirls Banked on Best Picture, and Lost
By LAURA M. HOLSON
Dreamgirls may well be remembered as the picture that showed how far a studio cannot go in seeking a prize.
Tech Barons Take on New Project: Energy Policy
By MATT RICHTEL
Technology investors are on a crusade to influence energy policy because they have a big stake
in the outcome.
More Business News
Back to Top
TECHNOLOGY
Tech Barons Take on New Project: Energy Policy
By MATT RICHTEL
Technology investors are on a crusade to influence energy policy because they have a big stake in the outcome.
At Davos, the Squabble Resumes on How to Wire the Third World
By JOHN MARKOFF
Passions still run high at the World Economic Forum over the best way to deploy computers in the developing world.
LINK BY LINK
In Politics, the Camera Never Blinks (or Nods)
By TOM ZELLER Jr.
A fight over a video clip of John McCain apparently dozing during the president s speech could be a preview of the coming
election.
More Technology News
Back to Top
SPORTS
SUPER BOWL XLI
At a Position Known for Greatness, Pretty Good Can Be Enough
By LEE JENKINS
Rex Grossman has managed to put up numbers on par with some Super Bowl legends, and yet is still regarded by some as the reason that the Bears will not win it all against Peyton Manning and the Colts.
3 Weeks to Pitchers and Molinas
By JACK CURRY
Of all the 18 other groups of brothers who have played major league baseball, only the three Molina brothers Bengie, Jos and Yadier, all catchers can each claim a World Series championship.
Barbaro Faces a New Peril After Surgery
By JOE DRAPE
Barbaro s long convalescence has taken a significant turn for the worse after a risky surgery was performed Saturday on his shattered right hind leg.
More Sports News
Back to Top
ARTS
Beyond a Shadow of a Doubt, Nights Are Noir in Fog City
By WENDELL JAMIESON
The Noir City film festival in San Francisco may not be Sundance, but it too has its celebrities and scenes.
Any Little Gems? Who Cares? Sundance Is a Hot Brand Now
By MANOHLA DARGIS
Although this year s edition was widely perceived as a critical disappointment, good and great work is still shown at the Sundance Film Festival.
BOOKS OF THE TIMES
Hollywood Monster Rampage: Art vs. Egos
By JANET MASLIN
David Mamet s collection of lacerating essays is uneven but icily hilarious.
More Arts News
Back to Top
NEW
YORK REGION
Money Trail Often Murky in Small Town Courts
By WILLIAM GLABERSON
Money has been lost, stolen or mishandled in case after case in New York State s town and village courts.
A British Invasion, From Harlem to the Harvard Club
By ERIC KONIGSBERG
Prince Charles and his wife, Camilla, were in New York for a nine hour, two stop publicity tour of Manhattan.
Respect Is Nice, but Principals Want a Raise
By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN
Principals are willing to accept the wider authority and changes being made by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, but are upset that some teachers make higher wages.
More New York Region News
Back to Top
MEDIA
ADVERTISING
Dreamgirls Banked on Best Picture, and Lost
By LAURA M. HOLSON
Dreamgirls may well be remembered as the picture that showed how far a studio cannot go in seeking a prize.
Feeding Frenzy for a Big Story, Even if It s False
By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK
The first anonymous smear of the 2008 presidential race illustrated how easily dubious information can spread.
ADVERTISING
At Last, Television Ratings Go to College
By LOUISE STORY
Nielsen Media Research will include the viewing of students living away from home in its count for the first time.
More Media Advertising News
Back to Top
EDITORIALS
23 Month Campaign
If Hillary vs. Obama vs. Rudy vs. McCain is already starting to feel old, remember that there are more than 600 days to go.
The True State of C.S.I. Justice
Modern DNA testing is steadily uncovering a dark history of justice denied.
A Public Memorial
Ground zero cannot be turned into a private memorial.
EDITORIAL OBSERVER
Congress, the Constitution and War: The Limits on Presidential Power
By ADAM COHEN
President Bush doesn t seem to care that Congress wants a bigger role in guiding the Iraq war.
More Editorials
Back to Top
OP ED
OP ED COLUMNIST
The Sum of All Ears
By PAUL KRUGMAN
Why is ethanol, not conservation, the centerpiece of the Bush administration s energy policy?
OP ED COLUMNIST
More Than Antiwar
By BOB HERBERT
People opposed to this wretched war in Iraq love their country as much as anyone ever has.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
The City That Never Walks
By ROBERT SULLIVAN
As a New Yorker who has spent two years researching roads and
transportation across the United States, I am saddened to see that the city is losing its edge as a pedestrian mecca.
Go to Editorials Op Ed
Back to Top
ON THIS DAY
On Jan. 29, 1963, poet Robert Frost died in Boston. See this front page
Buy this front page
Back to Top
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy
InternetElect News. Briefly . InternetElectPress InternetElectVideo InternetElect InterElect
The fish are biting.
Get more visitors on your site using Yahoo! Search Marketing.
The New York Times: DealBook TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES Monday, January 29, 2007
M A: Merrill Lynch to Buy First Republic
INVESTMENT BANKING: Credit Suisse Eyes Trust Banks in U.S.
I.P.O.S OFFERINGS: Indonesian Oil Giant May Hold I.P.O. in 2008
VENTURE CAPITAL: Tech Barons Take on Energy Policy
PRIVATE EQUITY: A Growing Aversion to Ticker Symbols
LEGAL: Former CA Executive Is Sentenced
HEDGE FUNDS: Greenlight Files Suit Claiming Loan Fraud
Visit the DealBook Web site for updates throughout the day. E mail Preferences Advertising Opportunities Help
Tycoons, politicians and big thinkers climbed into limousines, trains and private planes on Sunday as this year's World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, came to an end. Among dealmakers and corporate executives there, the push to go private was a major topic of discussion. Strolling out of a session called "Is Bigger Better in Private Equity?", Blackstone Group 's Stephen Schwarzman told DealBook an anecdote about how the chief executive of an unnamed company worth more than 125 billion recently remarked, "Geez, I wish you could buy us, but we're too big." Amid all
this talk about going private, John Thain, chief executive of the NYSE Group , predicted that the tide would eventually turn and companies would make their way back to the public markets.
For full coverage of the conference, including George Soros giving his views on the United States presidential race and Google 's founders on the future of the media business, go to Davos Diary.
Go to Article from The New York Times
Go to Davos Diary
Advertisement
Merrill Lynch said Monday it will acquire First Republic Bank , a bank that specializes in serving wealthy individuals, for 1.8 billion in cash and stock.
Go to Article from Reuters
Abitibi Consolidated of Canada and Bowater of the United States said Monday that they would merge, creating the third largest paper company in North America. The combined entity would have annual
revenue of about 7.9 billion, the companies said.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
Citigroup , moving to bolster its consumer business in the United Kingdom, said Monday it would buy Egg, the online bank, from British insurer Prudential for 575 million pounds ( 1.13 billion) in cash.
Go to Article from Reuters via Yahoo News
Sanofi Aventis and Bristol Myers Squibb Co. could announce a friendly merger deal within the next few weeks to create the world's biggest drugs company, according to an unsourced report from French financial newsletter La Lettre de l'Expansion.
Go to Article from Reuters via Yahoo News
Tribune 's top management team is talking with private equity companies about
crafting a new deal to restructure the company and will likely begin discussing its ideas with the company's special board committee Saturday in Chicago, The Chicago Tribune reported.
Go to Article from The Chicago Tribune
The Blackstone Group 's 38.3 billion bid for Equity Office Properties Trust won another supporter Sunday when proxy adviser Institutional Shareholder Services said it had recommended that its shareholders vote for
the buyout shop's proposed merger.
Go to Article from Reuters via The New York Times
Go to Article from The Chicago Tribune
Foreign buyers stoked Canada's biggest global mergers and acquisition boom in history, snaring once untouchable trophy Canadian companies.
Go to Article from The Globe and Mail
Riverbed Technology parlayed its ability to help speed up network
traffic into last year's hottest initial public offering. What is next for the remaining vendors? A report from The 451 Group concludes that others are more likely to join the growing list of trade sales.
Go to Report from The 451 Group
As buyout firms cast an eye over Gap and the retailer's interim chief executive, Robert Fisher, passes out memos on to improve business, The New York Times looks at at the anachronism that is the Gap: a single chain, selling only its own brand, with one point of
view, chasing shoppers from birth to death.
Go to Article from The New York Times
Go to Previous Article from The New York Post
Go to Previous Item on DealBook
A Credit Suisse private banking executive said his firm is interested in buying a trust bank in the United States, Financial News reported. The investment bank could use funds from the recent sale of its insurance unit Winterthur.
Go to Article from Financial News
Deutsche Bank has a problem in equities that is not going away soon enough, Bloomberg News ntoes. While Germany's largest bank earned more revenue last year than any competitor except Goldman Sachs , income from stocks rose at the slowest pace
of the 10 biggest securities firms.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
Four of Europe's national lobbying groups for the investment banking industry, hoping to coordinate their responses to issues before European legislators and international regulators, plan to create a joint body called the European Forum of Securities Associations , The Financial Times reported.
Go to Article from The Financial Times via MSN Money
The corporate jet, which lives large in the public imagination, may be one reason that the ethically questionable relationship between Maria Bartiromo, the popular CNBC anchor, and ousted a Citigroup executive, Todd S. Thomson, has garnered so much attention, writes The New York Times' David Carr.
Go to Article from The New York Times
Go to Article from Newsweek
Go to Previous Item on DealBook
Pertamina , Indonesia's state oil company, said it may be ready for an initial public offering by the end of 2008 after weeding out corruption and improving accounting procedures. It would have a market value of 30 billion, the company's president said last week.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News via the International Herald Tribune
Monotype Imaging Holdings , a maker of text imaging software, filed with regulators Friday for an initial public offering of as much as 135 million in stock.
Go to Article from The Boston Globe
Go to Prospectus from the S.E.C.
President Bush set broad goals last week for the adoption of alternative energy. Hoping to take on the role of filling in the details is an unlikely group: Silicon Valley's technology investors.
Go to Article from The New York Times
Go to Previous Item on DealBook
After five years of job losses, Silicon Valley is hiring again. The turnaround coincides with a huge increase of investment in the emerging category of clean environment technology.
Go to Article from The New York Times
Go to Previous Item on DealBook
The scores of Web 2.0 start ups trying to hit the MySpace YouTube jackpot may be living on borrowed time, says BusinessWeek.
Go to Article from
BusinessWeek
Comcast 's venture capital arm, Comcast Interactive Capital, is helping the company create an ecosystem of businesses that advance new cable technologies and, if all goes well, boost C.I.C.'s bottom line.
Go to Article from The Philadelphia Inquirer
Mayfield Fund of Menlo Park, Calif., raised a 200 million early stage venture fund dedicated to investment in China, formalizing a two year relationship with China's GSR Ventures to become a general partner in GSR Ventures II.
Go to Article from The Deal.com
Now that the big private equity firms have hundreds of billions of dollars to spend, many more public companies perhaps even 100 billion companies may soon lose their ticker symbols, writes Andrew Ross Sorkin in his DealBook column.
Go to Article from The New York Times
Sterling Investment Partners has agreed to buy a majority stake in Fairway Markets , one of New York City's best known food institutions, in a deal that The Deal.com reports is worth about about 150 million.
Go to Article from The Deal.com
British buyout shop 3i Group walked away from its proposed acquisition of British realtor Countrywide , after shareholders rejected its 1 billion pound ( 1.96 billion) offer.
Go to Article from The Deal.com
Ira Zar, Computer Associates ' former finance chief who pleaded guilty to securities fraud and who prosecutors said was instrumental in the prosecution of the company's former chief executive, Sanjay Kumar, was sentenced to seven months in prison and seven months of home detention.
Go to Article from Reuters via The New York Times
Levi Strauss is becoming a leader in a new arena: lawsuits. The original jeans maker has filed more suits against competitors, accusing them of stealing its signature back pocket stitching.
Go to Article from The New York Times
Bad corporate behavior, including avaricious management led buyouts and options backdating, is undermining the trust that is
the bedrock of capitalism, Ben Stein writes in The New York Times.
Go to Article from The New York Times
As SunPower announced explosive growth in the fourth quarter Thursday, the solar power company also disclosed that a senior level employee is under federal scrutiny for actions he took while working for a former employer.
Go to Article from The San Jose Mercury News
Greenlight Capital , a hedge fund that has been locked in a dispute with Allied Capital , filed a lawsuit on behalf of the United States alleging that Allied's Business Loan Express unit submitted fraudulent loan documents to the Small Business Administration.
Go to Article
from Reuters
For good or ill, alternative investment vehicles like foreign currencies, commodities, real estate and private equity are landing in the hands of the masses.
Go to Article from The New York Times
Dealboard
Tool Resources
GET QUOTES
by Name or Symbol:
Look Up Symbol
Join the Discussion
Share your thoughts about today's Dealbook news in the readers' forum.
Research Suite
Portfolio
Company Research
U.S. Markets
International Markets
Mutual Funds
Send a Tip or Feedback
E mail us at
dealbook nytimes.com
COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
News Features
Property Listings
Sales
Leases
Search by Keyword:
List Your Property
Property E Mail Alerts
Building Photo Guide
Click here to
Receive 50 off
of Home Delivery of The New York Times Newspaper.
Andrew Ross Sorkin, Peter Edmonston,
Michael de la Merced and Liza Klaussmann.
NYTimes.com
500 Seventh Ave.
New York, N.Y. 10018
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy
InternetElect News. Briefly . InternetElectPress InternetElectVideo InternetElect InterElect
Everyone is raving about the all new Yahoo! Mail beta.
Why is it no one in Wahington is saying the plain truth about Iraq? No declared Republican or Democratic Presidential candidate has said what should be self evident to all: The presence of American troops in Iraq is aggravating the recovery of that country instead of aiding it. All of the Iraqi factions are allied on one point: they hate the United States. Our troops are not able to provide security. Rather, our troops are targets. Sending 20,000 more troops to Iraq is not going to secure the country. We already have more than 100,000 troops there and they cannot secure it. Iraq is the size of Texas. The people of the United States were never committed to putting enough ground forces in Iraq to secure a land mass that size. We invaded Iraq on false pretenses promising to find and seize weapons of mass destruction. We used Colin Powell's credibility to sell our mission to the United Nations. We are destroying the morals and psyche of a generation of young men and women who will one day come home. More severely injured youth are surviving this was than did the Vietnam War. Whether this generation will ever be able to be productive citizens in the United States upon return is a question no one is weighing. Although I am not a military strategist, I knew going into this that it was going to be a 10 year mission. Its time to go. The longer a war is fought on Iraq soil using United States weapons the greater the damage to the country's infrastructure and the longer it will take it to recover. Bush wants to increase troop levels to prolong the status quo until his term ends in 2008. If we go this route, four years later his Democratic sucessor will be blamed for withdrawing the troops and the Republicans can reclaim the White House in 2013. Future occupancy of the White House should not figure into when we bring our troops home.
Dear Friends and Loved ones:
This is relatively "old news," but I had not really understood what was going on, until now. It looks like Governor Manfred Reyes Villa (who has a long history in politics) is trying to position himself for the "next presidency." Is Manfred just another politician willing to see people hurt, to obtain power? Or is he just willing to see people hurt to further the cause of Autonomy? Whatever the cause is, the battle over "Autonomy" is a battle that won't be a "weekend blockade." Santa Cruz city elder Carlos Valverde Barbary, founder of the radical Cruce a Youth Union, is among those who see the regional differences as irreconcilable . It could escalate into Civil War, just as past president Mesa warned two years ago.
Dear Readers, what Manfred Reyes Villa is doing is as more radical than the roadblocks!! He is pushing for a "revocatory referendum" that would be like IMPEACHING Morales, and the governors of all 9 departments of Bolivia, holding new elections where he would be a favorite. (This referendum was already held, and failed last year.) Let's take this one step further, and " speak the unspeakable ." Is Manfred and the other 3 governors that he was having meetings with willing to risk thousands of lives, by risking a Civil War and a divided Bolivia, just for power? Keep Praying! Ken
The battle took place on a day when Reyes, a former presidential candidate widely considered to still harbor national ambitions, had traveled to the Bolivian capital, La Paz, for a summit with four other governors to develop a political strategy in opposition to Morales.
Morales' efforts to expand his executive power and maintain a tight grip on an assembly rewriting the Bolivian Constitution have incensed the opposition governors who head six of nine Bolivian states, many of which have long sought greater leeway from the central government.
Last month Reyes joined the autonomy movement, calling for Cochabamba to hold a second vote on a referendum giving the states greater power.
The referendum was defeated in a nationwide election in July. Cochabamba, in the Andean foothills at the center of the country, had joined four western highland states in rejecting the measure, while Bolivia's four eastern lowland states favored it.
Tensions between Morales and opposition governors have heightened in recent weeks, with Morales proposing to sending deputies from La Paz to monitor the state governments' activities. Opposition governors immediately threatened to send their own delegations to keep a closer eye on Morales.
Source: Deadly clashes part of Bolivian power struggle CNN.com
Currently listening to: Den D da Vinkeln Kent
Greetings and salutations! Welcome to the first blog of my new MSN space account!
The reason for the new account is simple. My old MSN Messenger account won't let me log in anymore, saying my contact list cannot be found. Since it's no longer possible for my messenger friends to see if I updated my old space without actually going to the page, I thought I would make a new one that tied into my new messenger account. It gives me a chance to start from scratch and make things look pretty, and it gives my messenger contacts the ability to see if I've written anything simply by looking for the little (and handy) gold star by my name.
I haven't written anything in quite some time. Let's see. Since I last wrote, we've had Christmas and a New Year! I'll start with those, I guess.
Christmas was pretty good, but quite short (as they usually seem to be). Our family had our fun on the Saturday before Christmas, on a day I worked no less. I got a couple of neat things, including a video game I was looking forward to (Splinter Cell 4: Double Agent). I also got a Hi definition feed for my TV, so now I can enjoy some of the hockey games the way they were meant to be enjoyed. Hi def TV is absolutely beautiful and the fact that I don't have to pay for it for a year is even better. I find myself watching a lot of things I normally wouldn't simply because it's so clear. I also got an NHL hockey version of the game Monopoly. That was so much fun to play. I was the little puck piece, while my mom grabbed the Zamboni and my brother took the ice skates. I lost pretty fast, but I had a lot of fun in the meantime. (I got my revenge the next game, haha.)
The New Year rolled around pretty quickly afterwards. The first couple of weeks were pretty mundane (had to use dictionary.com to make sure I used the right here there), but lately, things have been better than I could have hoped for. I met a girl! Her name is Laura and she's stunningly beautiful, in my eyes at least. Hey, that's all the matters, right? Right! She lives in Maryland. We met a few weeks ago in a Christian Chatroom and we've really hit it off. I love talking to her. I'm a pretty quiet person normally, but when we talk, I can really open up and carry on a conversation with her with ease. It's a little hard being a long distance relationship and I'm sure most people would think we're weird, but I don't care. I'd like to see things work, and I'm pretty sure they will. I hope they do anyway. She's a real special girl and I'm lucky to have met her.
Nothing else is new in my world, though. Work is drawing to a close here in the coming month, so I'll need to find another job soon, but aside from that, things are pretty much the same. I still watch hockey, play video games, and listen to Swedish music. I'm getting better at singing it, too, haha. I sing better in Swedish than I do in English, but I still suck at it.
Hm, let's see. World news! Iraq, Iran, North Korea, take your pick! I could venture into the 2008 Presidential Race candidate list, but that's a blog for another time. Politics are no fun anyway. I vote for Rudy.
I read on MSN that we killed 250 Iraqi militants the other day. Great! It's always a good day when a terrorist dies. Multiply that by 250 and it's the best day ever. It was tragic that the US lost 5 men, though, 2 to a helicopter crash, and 3 others to unrelated situations. That's never fun. I won't go into whether or not I think the we should be in Iraq or not, but the fact is, we are there and our men and women dying is no good. I can't help but think of a gaming buddy of mine that recently entered the military as a tank officer (whether driving, loading, or whatever, I'm not sure). There's no doubt in my mind that he'll be shipped out to Iraq or Afghanistan once he's done with his training. I wish him and all the other troops out there the best of luck and hope they come home soon.
He was home for a couple weeks at Christmas time, so I got to talk to him for a little while. He's doing pretty well, but had to battle with pneumonia for a little bit during camp. He's alright now. He's a tough guy. They'll make a soldier out of him yet. That reminds me. Before he left, he asked me to write him. I thought about that the other day. I haven't written to him yet. I really should just to let him know how things are going on the outside world and how his gaming buddies are doing. Hopefully it'll be nice for him to get a letter from someone other than mom. I'm not sure if any of the guys from the clan have written to him. I would doubt it. Poor guy. Time to step up! Letter's coming, Dave.
Well, I guess that's about it for my first blog. I try to make the first one a long one to capture the reader's attention, but this one came out a little short. Not much to write about, I guess, but I'm sure something interesting will happen between now and the next time I write.
See you then!
Here's the latest news on my campaign to represent you
Sometimes the Truth Makes Waves
Dear Friend of This Campaign,
My presidential bid continues to stir dust in every direction! That's good, I think.
On Thursday, I made a statement sure to offend many of the most powerful people in Washington.
I called for the disbanding of the Black, the Asian Pacific American, and the Hispanic Congressional Caucuses.
This was a risky decision for me , but I had to tell the truth even if I lost some friends.
I think it's high time we fought harder for Ronald Reagan's vision of a COLOR BLIND SOCIETY! A place where people are no longer forbidden to join clubs or attend schools based on the color of their skin .
But isn't that what the Black and Asian and Hispanic Caucuses are? Powerful groups of legislators united by one thing their ethnicity? Rep. Stephen Cohen (D Tennessee) recently tried to join the Black Congressional Caucus, but was turned down. He is white.
This is outrageous! In the 21st century, I think we should be past racial tests for political advantage. Don't you agree?
Lots of caucuses in Congress make sense and are needed. The Urban Caucus, the Blue Dog (conservative Democratic) caucus, and my own Immigration Reform Caucus.
And if Congressmen of a particular ethnicity, racial group or national origin want to hang out together, that's great! Go to dinner!
But don't meet behind closed door to make national policies based on ethnicity.
Because of my strong views on this matter, some pundits and liberal bloggers will call me racist.
Those of you who've known me long KNOW that's a lie. Ethnic based Congressional caucuses should voluntarily disband. Or if they won't disband for the good of the country, Congress should just abolish them. Together we need to get beyond race and towards assimilation and unity.
(Like to make an additional donation? You may give up to 2,100 to the campaign! Click Here to go to my Secure Donation page.)
So how are we doing?
Every week I've the opportunity of doing more national TV, talking on syndicated radio talk show, and generating more and more interest in the press.
It's easy finding audiences to hear my message:
Secure the borders!
Return Sanity to Runaway Immigration
Control spending
Limit government powers
Monday I returned from a campaign swing to New Hampshire. The weekend before it was Iowa, where we now have a fulltime staff member (and are looking for others).
Thousands of you are writing in, calling with ideas, sending contributions, offering your services as a volunteer ( especially needed if you live in the suburban Washingon, D.C. area or in Iowa or in New Hampshire).
Tens of thousands of people have signed the peition asking me to formally declare my candidacy for the nomination. All that's progress.
Resources needed to get to next stage
My friends, we need money. A lot more money. I'm not complaining, believe me. Every single day hundreds of new donors are giving money online or via check to get us further down the road.
You may be one of the generous friends who have already said, "Make my donation monthly!" If so, thank you. You've definitely done all you can already. If some others would like to support me regularly, CLICK HERE to go to the donation page and check "MONTHLY" at the bottom of the page.
I understand that each and every one on this list has donated in January. Again, thank you again!
But I can point out the need. And I can tell you of the urgent need for me to move fast to secure campaign momentum.
We need offices in various primary states. We need campaign workers. There are telephone and postage costs to cover. Frankly, it's a lot!
If you feel led to make another donation , it would be GREATLY appreciated and wisely used.
(Please Click Here to go to my Secure Donation page and make your additional donation.)
Another thing would you please FORWARD this email to everyone on your list? We really need to get the word out!
Please let me hear from you.
Sincerely,
Tom Tancredo
Jim, here is one of the sites that I get from a friend and Bircher who
subscribes to World Affairs Brief by Joel Skousen. RWM
PDF Version: World Affairs Brief Jan 26, 2007
World Affairs Brief January 26, 2007. Copyright Joel Skousen. Partial quotations with attribution permitted. Cite source as Joel Skousen's World Affairs Brief ( http: www.worldaffairsbrief.com ).
BUSH: PRESIDENT AND PANDERER IN CHIEF
The presidential speech writers' audacity, mendacity, and shamelessness never ceases to amaze me. Each year the boldness of the president's lies to the American people in his State of the Union address grow more outrageous. Hitler's propagandists had little in their arsenal of the "Big Lie" to match the sophistication of today's White House speech writers and Congress is complicit in their spineless and adoring willingness to stand and applaud on cue.
The media is also complicit by never bringing the president nor any of his yesmen to account for these grand deceptions. When is the last time you heard someone in an interview with the president or the vice president say:
"How can you keep telling the public with a straight face that you are 'not leaving problems to future Generations?' The deficit keeps building for future generations, and you have the audacity to say you've cut this year's deficit in half while concealing the fact that you didn't count the 400 billion you took from the SS fund and the 100 billion you spent on Iraq, which was off budget. ... How do you justify that kind of deception? ...
PDF Version: World Affairs Brief Jan 19, 2007
World Affairs Brief January 19, 2007. Copyright Joel Skousen. Partial quotations with attribution permitted. Cite source as Joel Skousen's World Affairs Brief ( http: www.worldaffairsbrief.com ).
UNITARY POWER: BUSH TELLS CONGRESS "I'M THE DECIDER"
In other words, Congress can go "stuff it." "I'm in charge here," says the president. It isn't that Bush is capable of total power or that he is a deluded dictator. He's a script reader who has been given instructions to defy the law openly so as to establish a legal and historical precedent for total, UNITARY power in the presidency. In other words, all this push for powers to the Commander in Chief has a much larger globalist purpose and will go far beyond the Bush presidency.
Glen Greenwald sets out part of this theory: "The Epilogue to his book emphasizes that the radical theories of presidential power adopted by the administration (and applied to general lawbreaking, warrantless eavesdropping, torture, indefinite detentions of U.S. citizens) applied clearly and fully to Iran, i.e., that those theories which were and still are the formally adopted positions of the Executive Branch absolutely mean that the president has the power to commence a war with Iran, and that not only would he not need Congressional approval to do so, but Congress would lack the power to stop him even if it tried.
"As a nation, we can and should engage in vigorous debates over whether a military offensive against Iran is desirable, prudent, disastrous, or just plain crazy. But it is just as crucial that we realize that the Bush administration has embraced theories of executive power which assert that the president has the authority to initiate a military attack on Iran regardless of whether the American people, or their representatives in Congress, approve of such an attack. ... As the Iran debate proceeds, ...
A very nice recap summary of the presidential elevation over the law of the land... (translation: criminal, with no consequences)
Link to Bush Is Not Above the Law New York Times
Two days ago I read this story :
CARACAS, Venezuela Hugo Chavez has just about everything a president could want: popular support, a marginalized opposition, congress firmly on his side and a booming economy as he starts his new six year term.
Now, he's about to become even more powerful: the all Chavista National Assembly is poised to approve a "mother law" as early as Wednesday enabling him to remake society by presidential decree. In its latest draft, the law would allow Chavez to dictate measures for 18 months in 11 broad areas, from the "economic and social sphere" to the "transformation of state institutions."
Chavez calls it a new era of "maximum revolution," setting the tone for months of upheaval as he plans to nationalize companies, impose new taxes on the rich and reorient schools to teach socialist values. With near religious fervor and plenty of oil wealth, Chavez is mobilizing millions of Venezuelans, intent on creating a more egalitarian society.
Already, profound changes can be seen throughout Venezuela. Those who felt left out of the old system are thrilled at the prospect of having a voice in politics. Others are horrified, predicting that doors will close on their personal freedoms under one man rule, although exactly what Chavez will do with his power remains unclear.
.
Outside the Spanish Embassy, dozens line up with documents in hand. Many plan trips for tourism or study, but Henry Krakower is thinking darker thoughts. He wants a passport for his 10 year old son in case they need to leave for good.
"I don't really know what all the coming changes are, but I don't think it's the best idea to give all the power to a single person for him to decide on my behalf," says Krakower, the son of a Polish concentration camp survivor who found a haven in Venezuela after World War II.
Government officials insist there will be total freedom of religion and speech and that private property will be safe, but the Krakowers aren't so sure. Listening for clues to what lies ahead, they worry about economic restrictions and ideology in education. At their son's private Jewish school, some parents are talking about how and when to leave the country.
"I think the president is going to do what he wants to do, because he will have all the power to decide on all things," Krakower says. "I think we're headed toward totalitarianism."
.
How much say the public will have in how Chavez uses the "enabling law" remains unclear, but lawmakers have been holding assemblies to gather public input.
"If there is no popular participation, there will be no socialism," lawmaker Dario Vivas said at one meeting. "Socialism is, definitively, giving power to the people." I did not have time to post on it two days ago, but now it has happened :
CARACAS, Venezuela A congress wholly loyal to President Hugo Chavez approved a law Wednesday granting the Venezuelan leader authority to enact sweeping measures by presidential decree.
Meeting at a downtown plaza in a session that resembled a political rally, lawmakers unanimously approved all four articles of the law by a show of hands.
"Long live the sovereign people! Long live President Hugo Chavez! Long live socialism!" said National Assembly President Cilia Flores as she proclaimed the law approved. "Fatherland, socialism or death! We will prevail!"
Chavez, who is beginning a fresh six year term, says the legislation will be the start of a new era of "maximum revolution" during which he will consolidate Venezuela's transformation into a socialist society. His critics, however, are calling it a radical lurch toward authoritarianism by a leader with unchecked power.
.
Chavez, a former paratroop commander who easily won re election in December, has said he will use the law to decree nationalizations of Venezuela's largest telecommunications company and the electricity sector, slap new taxes on the rich and impose greater state control over the oil and natural gas industries.
The law also allows Chavez to dictate unspecified measures to transform state institutions; reform banking, tax, insurance and financial regulations; decide on security and defense matters such as gun regulations and military organization; and "adapt" legislation to ensure "the equal distribution of wealth" as part of a new "social and economic model." Now, let's compare :
The Enabling Act (Erm chtigungsgesetz in German) was passed by Germany's parliament (the Reichstag) on March 23, 1933. It was the second major step after the Reichstag Fire Decree through which the Nazis obtained dictatorial powers using largely legal means. The Act enabled Chancellor Adolf Hitler and his cabinet to enact laws without the participation of the Reichstag.
.
While there had been previous enabling acts in the earliest years of the Weimar Republic, this one was more far reaching since Article 2 allowed for deviations from the constitution. The law therefore formally required a two thirds majority in the Reichstag.
Though the Act had formally given legislative powers to the government as a whole, these powers were for all intents and purposes exercised by Hitler himself; as Joseph Goebbels wrote shortly after the passage of the Enabling Act:
The authority of the F hrer has now been wholly established. Votes are no longer taken. The F hrer decides. All this is going much faster than we had dared to hope.
Formal cabinet meetings were rare during the whole Third Reich and non existent during World War II.
It is indicative of the care that Hitler took to give his dictatorship an appearance of legality that the Enabling Act was formally extended twice by the Reichstag (by then a puppet of Hitler) beyond its original 1937 expiration date.
The passage of the Enabling Act reduced the Reichstag to a mere stage for Hitler's speeches. The opposition parties were suppressed or banned, and eventually even the parties making up Hitler's coalition yielded to government pressure and dissolved themselves. On July 14, 1933 the government decreed a law eliminating political parties other than the Nazi Party. By this, Hitler had fulfilled what he had promised in earlier campaign speeches: "I set for myself one aim ... to sweep these thirty parties out of Germany!". Also, here :
... P resident Paul von Hindenburg died on 2 August 1934. Rather than holding new presidential elections, Hitler's cabinet passed a law proclaiming the presidency dormant and transferred the role and powers of the head of state to Hitler as F hrer und Reichskanzler (leader and chancellor). Thereby Hitler also became supreme commander of the military, which then swore their military oath not to the state or the constitution but to Hitler personally. In a mid August plebiscite, these acts found the approval of 84.6 of the electorate. Combining the highest offices in state, military and party in his hand, Hitler had attained supreme rule that could no longer be legally challenged.
So, what is the Spanish for "F hrer"? While the crazy American Left screams at the Bush administration and compares the President to Hitler, their new darling Hugo Chavez quite literally follows Hitler's rise to power.
I think I've said it before: current combat in Iraq in Afghanistan will be compared to the war that is coming like American involvement in Nicaragua in the late 1920s early 1930s can be compared to World War 2. And this coming war we might actually have to fight on our soil. Not just in Aleutians, but actually in the continental US.
Wednesday, 31 January, 2007, 6:00 GMT 01:00 05:00:US Eastern
TOP STORIES Indian firm wins race for Corus
Indian company Tata wins the 6bn battle to take over Anglo Dutch steelmaker Corus. US chief seeks new tack on Iraq
President Bush's choice for chief of US forces in the Middle East urges a "new and different" approach in Iraq . Ministers silent on honours probe
Downing Street refuses to comment on the arrest of Labour's chief fundraiser Lord Levy. Rape prosecutions 'must improve'
Police and prosecutors are not implementing measures aimed at boosting rape conviction rates, watchdogs say. Manchester wins super casino race
Manchester is the surprise choice to be the location for Britain's first Las
Vegas style super casino. WORLD US chief seeks new tack on Iraq
President Bush's choice for chief of US forces in the Middle East urges a "new and different" approach in Iraq . Cuban TV shows 'stronger' Castro
Cuban television shows pictures of an apparently stronger Fidel Castro, the first since October 2006. Protesters storm Ecuador Congress
Supporters of Ecuador President Rafael Correa storm Congress, suspending debate on constitutional reform. AMERICAS US chief seeks new tack on Iraq
President Bush's choice for chief of US forces in the Middle East urges a "new and different" approach in Iraq . Cuban TV shows 'stronger' Castro
Cuban television shows pictures of an apparently stronger Fidel Castro, the first since October 2006. Author Sidney Sheldon dies at 89
The best selling American novelist Sidney Sheldon dies aged 89 of complications from pneumonia. ASIA PACIFIC Climate change warning for Sydney
A new report warns that life in the Australian city of Sydney could be made unsustainable by climate change. Hong Kong limits pregnant Chinese
New rules in Hong Kong limiting the number of mainland women arriving to give birth will soon take effect. Thailand halts Hmong repatriation
Thailand stops forced return of Hmong refugees to Laos after Western countries agree to take them. EUROPE EU moves to cure vodka headache
The European Parliament suggests a possible solution to a dispute over the definition of vodka. Greek pupils demand Elgin Marbles
Greek schoolchildren form a human chain around the Acropolis to demand the
UK return the Elgin Marbles. Indian firm wins race for Corus
Indian company Tata wins the 6bn battle to take over Anglo Dutch steelmaker Corus. MIDDLE EAST Attacks as Iraqi Shia mark Ashura
At least 40 people die in attacks across Iraq at the climax of the Shia Muslim religious festival of Ashura. Hamas member killed despite truce
A Hamas commander is shot dead in Gaza , despite a ceasefire aimed at ending Palestinian infighting. Hezbollah leader hits out at Bush
Hezbollah chief Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah accuses the US of ordering Israel to start last year's conflict. UK Ministers silent on honours probe
Downing Street refuses to comment on the arrest of Labour's chief fundraiser Lord Levy. Indian firm wins race for Corus
Indian company Tata wins the 6bn battle to take over Anglo Dutch steelmaker Corus. Rape prosecutions 'must improve'
Police and prosecutors are not implementing measures aimed at boosting rape conviction rates, watchdogs say. ENGLAND Indian firm wins race for Corus
Indian company Tata wins the 6bn battle to take over Anglo Dutch steelmaker Corus. Action urged on migrant tensions
Local councils must act swiftly to stop minor disputes between migrants and local residents escalating, a report says. Rape prosecutions 'must improve'
Police and prosecutors are not implementing measures aimed at boosting rape conviction rates, watchdogs
say. POLITICS Blair blasted over Tanzania deal
A former cabinet minister joins the Tories in accusing ministers of selling Tanzania a "useless" radar system. Ministers silent on honours probe
Downing Street refuses to comment on the arrest of Labour's chief fundraiser Lord Levy. Sarkozy hails 'pragmatic' Blair
French centre right presidential
candidate Nicolas Sarkozy praises his host Tony Blair during a visit to London . BUSINESS Indian firm wins race for Corus
Indian company Tata wins the 6bn battle to take over Anglo Dutch steelmaker Corus. Manchester wins super casino race
Manchester is the surprise choice to be the location for Britain's first Las Vegas style super casino. GE bank fined for sales breaches
GE
Capital Bank is fined 610,000 after treating customers unfairly while selling payment protection insurance, a watchdog says. ENTERTAINMENT Police to reunite for Grammy gig
The Police are to reunite and perform at the Grammy Awards next month. Author Sidney Sheldon dies at 89
The best selling American novelist Sidney Sheldon dies aged 89 of complications from pneumonia. BBC journalists consider strike
Journalists at the BBC are considering taking strike action over the issue of compulsory redundancies.
SCIENCE NATURE Wild wolves 'good for ecosystems'
The reintroduction of wild wolves into the Scottish Highlands is likely to benefit the area's ecosystem, a study concludes. Hubble's main camera shuts down
The camera on the Hubble space telescope responsible for taking clear pictures of the early Universe breaks down. Stonehenge builders' houses found
Archaeologists say they have found a huge ancient settlement used by the people who built Stonehenge. HEALTH BMA team 'stunned by GP contract'
GPs could not believe the terms they were offered when negotiating their new contract, a doctor says. Retailers to stop trans fat use
Major UK retailers plan to stop adding harmful trans fats to their own brand products. Fears over deadly hospital bugs
Rates of infection with the deadly Clostridium difficile bug rise in English hospitals, while MRSA rates fall only slowly. EDUCATION Brown backs schooling to age 18
Gordon Brown says penalties may be introduced to force youngsters to stay in education or training until age 18. Schools bring back boxing lessons
Several schools in London are reintroducing boxing into PE lessons to assist pupils' development. Pupil exclusions continue to rise
Figures reveal a rise of almost 18 in expulsions from Scotland 's schools over three years. ON THIS DAY NEWS FROM THE BBC ARCHIVES
2000: Life for serial killer Shipman
Family GP Dr Harold Shipman is jailed for life for murdering 15 of his patients making him Britain's most prolific convicted serial killer.
1953: 130 die in ferry disaster
A car ferry sinks in the Irish Sea in one of the worst gales of the winter claiming the lives of up to 130 passengers and crew. 1996: Fifty dead in Sri Lanka suicide bombing
A lorry carrying heavy explosives crashes into a bank in Colombo bank killing more than 50 people. OPTIONS AND HELP
InternetElect News. Briefly . InternetElectPress InternetElectVideo InternetElect InterElect
Finding fabulous fares is fun.
Let Yahoo! FareChase search your favorite travel sites to find flight and hotel bargains.
Quote :If Senator Joseph Biden thinks that a meaningless apology is a get out of jail free ride,he needs to wake up and smell the scum!!He has destroyed any promise of a run for the presidential nomination.What little credability he had is down the stool,did he not the the flush?This is another example of racism no matter how you look at it.Idiots,after making a gaff always say that is not what I meant.Who is his speech writer?Tony Snow,Ari Fleischer,or Bill O'Reilly?The damage is done, go stick your head in the sand!!!Bye Bye Biden!!
Biden apologizes for Obama remarks Nightly News with Brian Williams MSNBC.com
Joshua Apostolic Prophetic Network Syndicated
Feed
Home Central
"THE STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS"
Excerpt of vision:
"I suddenly saw in the billows of His presence, certain ministries and their strategic nature to bring about this Divine State of Union. I saw prophetic ministries and the far reaching ramifications of their labor. I saw them as a razor knife cutting away the grave clothes of division from the Body that kept it from the State of Union which God was declaring."
"THE STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS"
(AND THE BILLOWING CLOUDS OF HIS PRESENCE)
Chad Taylor
Consuming Fire
"I saw the doors of the White House and the Congress opening to certain prophetic ministries as a precedent of unity between Church and State begins in 2007." Chad
THE STATE OF OUR UNION
On January 23rd, 2007, President Bush gave his "State of the Union Address" as required by the Constitution of the United States, which states:
"(The President) shall from time to time give to Congress information of the State of the Union and recommend to their Consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient." (Article II, Section 3).
George Washington gave the first address January 8th, 1790 in New York City. As I watched this event unfold Tuesday night, I was first struck with the magnitude of the title:
"The State of the Union" and its far reaching implications that went beyond the hallowed corridors of American history. God was asking us on this 23rd day, of January 2007, "What is your State of Union?"
For the first time, I suddenly saw the amplitude of the "State of our Union or Unity" as His Body and how important it is to God. What highlighted this was the "State of our Union," as our President stood before a historic House of Representatives and Congress.
This governing body could not have been more widely divided as this address was being made, and this cemented division is clearly illustrated in the general spirit of American's everywhere as our "state of union" is tested like never before. I saw the paradox as well.
This division and Divine testing of our "state of union or unity" was not confined to a political paradigm; it was for the Church as well. God is asking all of us in this hour, "What is your state of union? Are you working toward My heart and a common goal, or is it divided and becoming a House that cannot stand?"
A VISION OF BILLOWING CLOUDS
At a certain point in the President's State of the Union address as he began to comment about Africa and her plight, I was suddenly arrested by the Spirit and a vision opened up to me. I saw BILLOWING CLOUDS OF HIS PRESENCE that were literally stories high.
They filled the scope of my spiritual eyes and were like nothing that I had ever seen. They appeared to me as clouds moving like giant waves filling every vacant space with their presence. As I saw this vision unfold, I heard the voice of the Lord from the billows,
"MY TRAIN FILLS THE TEMPLE!"
Then I was clearly aware that these billows were not clouds, but they were the garments and presence of the Lord God Almighty Himself. Then from the billowing train of the Lord, I heard the voice of President Bush as he declared this and that about Africa, and then I heard the Voice of the Lord again, as if the two voices were one,
"WHOM SHALL I SEND, AND WHO WILL GO FOR US?"
I realized at that very moment, that this was a great commission to the Church in this hour, and it required an unshakable State of Union like never before, as the Church was commissioned by God AND by our President as well. I then heard an angel declare,
"LOOK! THE KING AND HIS Kingdom ARE COMMISSIONED!"
I suddenly saw in the billows of His presence, certain ministries and their strategic nature to bring about this Divine State of Union. I saw prophetic ministries and the far reaching ramifications of their labor. I saw them as a razor knife cutting away the grave clothes of division from the Body that kept it from the State of Union which God was declaring.
I then heard the President's voice (in the Spirit) begin to declare his blessings over these prophetic ministries, as I heard the President speak their names and he nodded in their direction. I heard many names and ministries at this time that were divine catalysts of God's State of the Union, as the Church moved toward this Great Commission.
I saw the doors of the White House and the Congress opening to certain prophetic ministries as a precedent of unity between Church and State begins in 2007 unlike any other political or spiritual era before it. I also observed some other ministries who had great presidential and governmental favor begin to fade from the picture.
I knew by the Spirit that their time of favor and prominence had come to an end as this great State of the Union unfolded. It was critical even beyond my present understanding that these other ministries make way for the new.
I saw "GOD TV" as a forerunner to this State of the Union as a great golden gate was opened between our continents, and I heard the Lord say,
"ONCE THERE WAS A REVOLUTION BETWEEN THESE COUNTRIES, NOW THERE SHALL BE ANOTHER, BUT IT WILL BE FOR THEIR GREATER GOOD, NOT EVIL!"
I knew by the Spirit that the Lord spoke of Great Britain and The United States. This great billowing train of His presence began to fill their houses of political and spiritual representation as well. A great spiritual revolution and revival had begun...
WATCHMEN WATCH THE WEST COAST!
I then heard something very unnerving from the Clouds of His presence. I heard the Lord say, "BEWARE OF ASSASSINATIONS AND MASS ATTACKS. FOR THE ENEMY DESIRES TO TAKE THE CITY AS ONE MAN."
I was reminded then of what the Lord had declared to Gideon when he faced the great army of Midianites, "And the LORD said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man..." (Judges 6:16).
I knew though that this was for evil and not for good in the context the Lord was showing me. The enemy of this State of Union would and is now concocting elaborate schemes to thwart this Union and that they would try to take down entire cities. I heard the Lord say at this time in the vision,
"WATCH THE WEST COAST, WATCHMEN WATCH THE WEST COAST! WATCHMEN WATCH THE WEST COAST!"
I knew too, that we had to pray IN UNITY as never before to stop the flood of the enemies attacks. A series of Scriptures leapt to my heart from the Lord as a first line of defense when the Lord said,
"I WILL RAISE UP A GREATER STANDARD IN THIS HOUR! I WILL RAISE UP A GREATER STANDARD!"
"When the enemy shall come in like a flood, the Spirit of the LORD shall lift up a standard against him" (Isaiah 59:19). Even in moments when it seems irrevocable, the Lord will raise up a supernatural standard. Even in this current political maelstrom, a righteous standard shall prevail and everyone shall see it at once.
"Go through, go through the gates; prepare ye the way of the people; cast up, cast up the highway; gather out the stones; lift up a standard for the people." (Isaiah 62:10)
"Declare ye among the nations, and publish, and set up a standard..." (Jeremiah 50:2).
A greater State of Union will prevail for the first time in 300 years between Great Britain and the United States. Crisis will solidify this Union like never before."In that day will I raise up the tabernacle of David that is fallen, and close up the breaches thereof; and I will raise up his ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old..." (Amos 9:11). I heard the Lord say, "This is your strategic prayer as in Amos 9:11:
CLOSE UP THE BREACHES! CLOSE UP THE BREACHES!'"Let us together PRAY THIS: 'CLOSE UP THE BREACHES, CLOSE UP THE BREACHES!'"
As posted on:
Apostolic Prophetic Global
JOSHUA A P NETWORK ELIST
Subscribe: Send a blank email
Quote: I have been a success in more than one field, but I still count myself a redneck from the Georgia clay for thank God I am a member of a minority that still has a sense of humor about themselves. Joe Biden is a powerful speaker, the sort of man we need in world politics. If an off handed remark that sparked a hair trigger response that could be made to sound like a racist slur, what are we coming to if such a fabrication can topple an experienced, much needed Senator what is the world coming too? As a veteran of the Montgomery bus boycott and one who took long risks to get my home town integrated, I did not take those risks and spend my good will only to spend the rest of my life walking on eggs for fear someone will misinterpret the most casual statement as a racial slur. If I took risks to make free speech for blacks I can surely take some risks to restore the rights of people to speak without having to plan and censor everything that comes out of their mouth.
Professor Redneck
It is so nice to see that the Democrats have gotten together for a group picture showing their true colors. I still have yet to hear a plan from them that actually involves winning in Iraq.
image courtesy of Iowa Presidential Watch
10 14 04 Preface: It has dawned on me after watching the Presidential Debate last night that now dramatizes my realization of a problem I face and I suspect many if not most Americans face: That problem is placing ' UNREALISTIC EXPECTATIONS ' or Demands, especially on our Candidates and others in Public and Military Services , and on our fellow citizens in general. I often feel that my own wife places a burden or expectation for perfection on me, that I typically respond to that " I DO NOT WALK ON WATER". No one short of our God and Lord, in my case, Jesus Christ, could possibly meet all of those expectations; I have to take refuge by thinking: "I am not perfect, Just Saved" or something to that effect. But what I do expect, though I often do not have the privilege of demanding, is that others and in particular those who hold themselves out for Public Office at least try to be TRUTHFUL AND HONEST in all their dealings in both official and personal aspects. I do allow that in the interest of both national and personal security some things must be left unsaid, and that it is not always in the best interest of our country to public discuss some issues. Also, I take issue with legal constructions that command responses that unfairly invade a persons private life jeopardizing their personal or political position; for example where pleading a fifth amendment right not to respond to a matter that is truly a private matter which neither the public nor the questioner has a legal right to know or ask.
An example of my point on unrealistic expectations is when parents criticize a school board member or teacher for their performance, but yet fail to address the teacher or board personally and further fail to participate in PTA and Board meeting themselves. Similarly would be criticizing a party nominees position when we have failed to participate in the 'Grass Root' campaigning or meetings that lead up to the nominee's being selected. In last nights debates I realize that no one candidate can possibly meet all of my expectations and I am left with choosing the better of two alternatives (perhaps the better of two evils if I were to be negative about it). In the present case, I believe I must deal with ' SHADES OF TRUTH ', and overemphasis if not outright exaggerations and on the other hand OUTRIGHT LIES and avoidance of truthful responses . I am also disturbed by a parties unwillingness to admit error; as I do believe it is an error and a flaw in basic character not to view oneself as a 'WORK IN PROGRESS' ; I think such a display is complete ARROGANCE, and stupidity, which I do not believe we can afford in any public service or office.
10 07 04 E Mail sent with Philosophy 06 19 03 Former Website Page as an Attachment:
For some it is 'A Time Of Opportunity' ; For some these are also 'Troubling times' :
The issue , I believe, centers on, and is the proper Separation of 'State' and, let's call it 'Theology' : I chose to believe that the founding fathers of these 'United States' of (North) America, ultimately, had a pretty clear grasp of what they were doing when they debate and finally wrote our founding documents, The Constitution of The United States Of America, The Bill Of Rights, and other documents that constituted the written evidence of the principles of government finally adopted for our new country. Many of our founders were Christians and many were not. I do believe that Christian fundamentals were all controlling in their collective thought processes, and are, if only by inference, thoroughly imbedded within those documents .
It is I believe equally clear, that the intent of our founding fathers was for this nation to be an 'Inclusive' society and government, that would not offend peoples of responsible moral persuasion , be they Christian, non Christian, agonistic, atheistic or any other persuasion. By inference, perhaps, I believe we are all subject to 'Universal i.e Global' rules of ethical, moral and honest conduct. I hope and believe it was intended that we apply, particularly for Christians, and many other faiths, the rules of conduct that are embodied in the 'Ten Commandments' which provides a ready made packaging of these rules of conduct.
I think it is further equally clear, that there is to be no prohibition for all citizens to practice their faith or lack of faith whatever so long as it did not deny or limit the lawful rights of others to similarly practice their beliefs; And , perhaps by inference only, there was to be no restrictions on citizens to publicly advocate for their beliefs , so long as their advocacy doesn't 'improperly' limit or threaten the rights of others.
At issue here is the open hostility and even criminalization of conduct that some, and in fact many, governments and faiths impose on their citizens and constituents, prohibiting what they refer to as procilatization ( recruiting ) of citizens or people to or away from their beliefs. This was discussed a few days ago on a PBS radio program, which shared statements where several people of Jewish persuasion expressed frightening rage with one of their former members who was advocating on the street for 'Jews for Christ'; Of couse, we have many instance of similar explicit threats coming from the Muslim communities, many advocating and voicing death threats to those who do not conform to their beliefs. In a recent article in the Chicago Tribune the Tribune reporter quoted several sources commenting on the 'Radio Islam' program that attributed what I believe were totally distorted and absolutely false positions to the U.S. government and others, apparently trying to build a case of persecution of the Muslim community. I personally find this article and comments to be threatening and frightening, in fact terrifying. I believe these and other critics of our society also have a duty to do positive due diligence and inquiry into what the beliefs and feeling of Christians are rather than simply airing there hate philosophies amongst themselves on public airwaves and media. I am attaching below my synopsis of the Tribune article which I am referring to. I am also posting an attachment to this e mail of my former website Philosophy page.
I believe it is clear that no Democratic or Freedom loving people can tolerate any government that imbeds any theological advocacy within their government. On the one hand all Democratic and Freedom loving people must, can and I hope will always insist on their rights, as individuals (including candidates for public office while campaigning for election), to hold to and advocate for any 'responsible' 'Moral' persuasion of their choice, both, and particularly within their own homes and private places of worship, and publicly but then only in a manner that is non threatening to the audience present at that public advocacy. In particular, I do not believe any government official should ever proffer (theological propositions), while acting in any official capacity, any theological opinions, views or edicts.
I believe that public adornment with dress and apparel unique to a particular persuasion is very quickly both threatening and offensive; and particularly when a jury of peers so views it as such, then it should become a banned practice: I believe the wearing of Unique Head dress (turbans, caps,etc.), Tunics, Robes etc. and other unique apparel, jewelry, piercings etc. fits into this area of practice which should not be accommodated. (For instance, Christ Jesus in Revelations is quite specific in admonishing against the use of any such apparel as a means of separating or distinguishing a minister within and from members of their congregation. I believe it is a sad commentary on the practices of virtually all leaders of almost all faiths, sects and cults who none the less adorn themselves in a manner so as to separate themselves from lay members of their congregation as well as the public at large. Dr. J. Vernon McGee emphasizes this teaching by Christ in his reading and studies of Revelations. Further, it is an abuse of a trust, and I think a crime, for such leaders to adorn themselves with expensive jewelry, automobiles, homes etc. paid for with money drawn from collections (which were given to further the work of their faith). A related issue is allowing any religious non profit or tax exempt status, frankly to any non government entity or activity. Such exemptions and status are, I believe, a blatant violations of the concept of separation of State and Church .
Which leads to another issue : It seems that a disease of leadership appointment is to turn that appointment into a vehicle for personal power, wealth, and aggrandizement and gratification in general. This seems a universal problem, whether the leadership is as a head of government (Nations, States, Municipalities, all other units of government etc.), a church, a congregation, a corporation, a Tribal Warlord or whatever. Within the theological realm, Imam's, Rabbi's, Pope's, Bishops, Priests, Ministers, Preachers; and even within domestic house holds between spouses and partners: you name it, it is a common disease: THE ABUSE OF POWER.
It appears to me that with very few exceptions these leaders almost invariably have created their entities (Religious Denominations, Sects, Congregations, Tribes etc. to serve as a financial power base for themselves, and then as in the instance of Homosexuals, So Called Celibate Priests, Polygamists and Tribal leaders, for Example such as Ossama Bin Laden, have regularly extended those power bases to serve their, often morbid, sexual interests.
It is my understanding and belief that virtual all faiths follow the principles, set forth also in the Christian Bible, that dictate that in all natural (God's) creation their is only one head; and now I come back to the head (the Headship ) of the domestic household . The Christian Bible tells us that this is a love Headship; which means to me that authority exists with divine authority only when it is exercised with Christian Love. Further, I do not believe this Headship extends beyond the domestic confines; in other words as soon as the man or woman steps outside the relationship of the domestic household they then no longer have the authority, of and, granted to this headship. I believe a Worst Case Example of the abuse of, and a purported extension of, this domestic authority is found in the practices of the Islamic Religion , and to varying degrees practiced in many if not most other societies in today's world, both in domestic, corporate, government and public environments.
I am simply amazed by how many presumably emancipated woman choose to stay in, return to or recruit themselves into the slavery of this practice, particularly in the Islamic Community , which I believe is a fraudulent interpretation when applied outside the domestic consenting household. Another vivid Domestic example is the practice within The Church of The Latter Day Saints (The Mormons) to excuse the practice of polygamy, which of course many if not most in the Islamic faith also practice.
With respect to Homosexuals , isn't it interesting that so many Governments, Heads of Governments, Politicians, Celibate professing Priests, Bishops and Ministers, etc. in general, are today permitted to thrive feeding on the very people they are charged with protecting to satisfy their Morbid Lusts . I do not believe any politician or anyone else for that matter, who panders to, promotes or participates in Same Sex Marriage or Homosexual conduct of any sort will pass muster at their judgment day with Jesus Christ ; I believe that unless they are able to confess this sin, repent and ask forgiveness in the name of Jesus Christ , they all do and will face an eternity in condemnation. Even Non Christians who will read the Christian Bible for its historical content have to be themselves mortified at how the God of Christ Jesus did and I am sure will deal with them.
True, Jesus Christ shows us the Love this God has for his entire creation and how he yearns for each of his creations to confess, repent of their sins and ask for forgiveness in the name of Jesus Christ; and join his Jesus Christ in salvation, So Yes this is a God of Love. Yet, this is also a Holy God, A Totally Just God and A Very Jealous God who has told us very clearly what his rules for salvation are, and what the future holds for each of us, both the Saved and the Un Saved . I believe The born again Christian must be the Envy of the entire Non Christian World : Even the Old Testament records many events of how enemies of God non the less knew and understood the truth and power of his words and understood when they were told of their impending death for defying Gods laws. Even most of his own people were and even today remain 'stiff necked' sinners who would not and still will not repent and they must all, in truth, know the unfortunate future that awaits them; I am sure they each tremble in their stubborn prideful hearts. True Christians understand that all those other people have very troubled times ahead of them, and our, including mine, hearts bleed and cry out for them to hear and act now while they can. We also understand that the only task we are permitted to undertake is to spread the word, and that after that it is between the Hearer of the Word and (Our) God what their decision will be. We have no further authority or choice and can only pray for them, that they will hear and come to him, now.
My own children wonder about what they can do, and what the future holds for this Country and The World and themselves and their children. Well, I happen to believe that the 'United States' exists only because and subject to the will of God, and that it and we will be judged as were Sodom and Gomorrah, along with the rest of the fallen world. Nineveh was allowed a final 400 years to get their act together before he took them away to their judgment. Only the Lord God knows for each given individual, ultimately, what that judgment will be and how much more time we will have before it is executed. I would pray that all of 'mine' including myself go with the rapture; but I am also content to place myself in my Lord God's hands and to suffer his will for me. Amen.
These are problems that I believe are at the heart of the struggle today. Many of us today are focused on the Middle East conflict. I believe that in reality these issues and problems are the driving force behind most of most of those practicing Terrorism throughout the world today.
Again, I believe that the Christian Faith has to be the envy in fact by ever other faith, sect or belief on earth, past or present. The Christian Bible defines itself as a closed book: it declares itself to supersede all prior doctrines and is closed to any purported future claims (Such as that of the Mormons) pending the Second Coming of Christ Jesus. By definition, in the Christian Bible, there is only one intercessor between man and his one and only true God (and that is the God of Christ Jesus) and that intercessor is Jesus Christ. He tells us that he will only hear us when we come to Him (God ) in the name of Jesus Christ, and then his only requirement for salvation is that when we Confess our sins and Repent of them and ask for forgiveness in the Name of Jesus Christ that He our God (Not just Jesus Christ) will then and only then ( He our God) will forgive us of those sins (If you will, he washes us white clean (in the name of and through or with) the Blood Of HIS Son, Jesus Christ).
Until we collectively understand all these issues and articulate them clearly, I do not believe we will move much closer to peace with the Terrorists, and the Islamic, Jewish and for that matter the Non Christian World; and in the alternative I believe we will then continue in the present death spiral under Terrorism and on into and thru the Apocalypse, until our Lord Jesus Christ reappears in our lives with his Second Coming.
I do believe this is a Time Of Opportunity or In The Alternative the beginning of Very Trouble Times.
I am Sincerely yours,
Herman Osborne.
PS: Particularly, with respect to Politicians and political campaigning, I think it would be useful if candidates, office holders, and commentators, and in fact if all of us could and would acknowledge that we are willing to look for ways to improve our own ideas and positions as we all learn from experience and training; and accordingly that we view ourselves as well as others whom we respect , which may often included our opponents, are in fact 'WORKS IN PROGRESS'. And as long as we have life in our body I hope we will remain so. I reserve for myself, and allow to others the right and the obligation to adjust my views without apology, as my experience and knowledge base grows. That even includes the right to admit I was wrong or less than perfect as I deem to be true and appropriate, and I do not and will not apologize when I do so, ever, for this, not even at my present age of 72.
I recommended that you visit and study the following website: www.ttb.org
1997 2001 Thru the Bible Radio Network
P.O. Box 7100, Pasadena, CA 91109
In Canada: Box 25325, London, Ontario N6C 6B1
Phone: (626) 795 4145 or (800) 65 BIBLE (24253)
Extracted comments were detailed in an article in The Chicago Tribune, Metro Section 4, Page 3 ,Sunday October 3, 2004: by Chicago Tribune Religious Reporter Geneveive Adbo (NIB).
10 03 04 WCEV AM 1450, 5366 West Belmont Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60641 4193 (773)282 6700 WCEV earthlink.net. Re the 'Radio Islam" Program that airs daily from 6 to 7 PM, hosted by Dr. Altaf Kaiseruddin (Pictured) ( A Dr. M. Altaf Kaiserduddin is listed at 607 South 56th Avenue, 7, Wausau, Wisconsin 54401 3889 (Non Published Phone) and a Mohammed Kaiseruddin is listed at 607 South 56th Avenue (715)849 5627 (Res): He hopes the program will help build a bridge of understanding. (He dresses in a long, white, Islamic Tunic.); he is depicted doing an on air interview with a Stand up Comedian, 'Preacher Moss' (not pictured) who sounded a loud "Salaam Aleikum", the Arabic Greeting meaning "Peace Be Upon You"; commenting on his 30 City tour 'Allah Made Me Funny".
Imam Abdul Malik Mujahid (There is a listing for an Abdul Aheem Mujahid at 144 North Main Street, Farmville, Virginia 23901 1349 (434)392 4918 (Res))(An A. Mujahid is listed at 5228 Prescott Road, Baton Rouge, LA 70805 5261 ((225)357 2095) (A Mohammed Mujahid is listed at 214 Gazebo Lane, Lombard, Illinois 60148 7118 (630)627 9728) is Producer of 'Radio Islam'. He (Mujahid) says the goal of the program is to tell non Muslim listeners things they often don't believe or want to hear: Islam Does Not Condone Terrorism; Islam is not at war with the West; and your Muslim neighbor is your friend. He say's "we are not a fighting type of talk show. It will be a civilized conversation among neighbors, who may not agree." (He says) 'Radio Islam is a 'mom and pop' station, whose call letters WCEV stand for "We're Chicago's Ethnic Voice". The station was created 25 years ago; it reaches listeners in Chicago, the Southwestern Suburbs and parts of Indiana.
Mujahid, The Executive Producer, is President of SoundVision (There is a Sound Vision listed at 9056 South Harlem Avenue, Bridgeview, Illinois 60455 (708)598 0727) (There is a listing for SoundVision in Winsboro, LA 71295) a Bridgeview Based Company that produces Videos and other programs for teaching the Koran and Arabic; He said he decided to create a Muslim Program several months ago and began searching for a commercial station that would put 'Radio Islam' on the air.
The Program Director for WCEV is Lucyna Migal (A L. Migla is listed at 1366 West Fullerton Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60614 2129 (773)929 4179, whose father, Joseph (NIB), Founded the Station. She says the station for years has aired Brokered Programming in Polish, Arabic, Bosnian and a host of other Foreign Languages, including Gaelic. She said: "We tend to be the Ethnic Public Radio Station".
Jenan Diab (A Jenan Diab is listed at 2610 South Sixth Street, Rockford, Illinois 61109 1149 (815)229 0926.
10 0303 Sama Siblani (NIB), Publisher and Founder of Arab American News, 5706 Chase Road, Detroit, Michigan (Based) 48126 (313)582 4888; commenting on: The WCEV AM 1450 'Radio Islam' Program.
10 03 04 (Ms) Aminah McCloud (NIB) ( R A McCloud are listed in Chicago, Illinois 60649 4711 (No address listed) (773)768 2937, a Professor in The Islamic Studies Program (NIB) at DePaul University (There is a listing for DePaul University at 2320 North Kenmore Avenue, Chicago 60614 (773)281 2635, said the Media Bias was part of a 'Larger Atmosphere' in the United States that encourages discrimination against Muslims. She says: "For the first time the U.S. Government has given a license to people to attack others based on their religion:.
10 03 04 Steve Rendall ( a Stephen is listed at 10 west Lyons Street, Melville, N 11747 1025 (631)423 3832) with the Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting, a National Watchdog Group (listed at 112 West 27th Street, New York, N.Y. 1001 (212)633 6700) say's "the press in the United States pretends to be objective but often is biased; particularly when it concerns articles about Islam".
10 03 04 Kamran Memon (K Memon is listed in Morton Grove, Illinois 60053 1546 (No address listed) (847)966 9151), a Chicago Civil Rights Lawyer was one of seven hosts on WCEV AM 1450 'Radio Islam' show that airs daily from 6 to 7 PM. Memon says "It is so important for Muslims to discuss things among themselves.
10 19 04 Notes extracted from my January 2004 Former Bigraphy Web Page:
(My Oldest Son speaking)
If you could live another hundred years with perfect health, would you go back to college?
Absolutely, and this time I would stay there to follow my own advise.
If so, what would you study?
At the time I wanted to be a school teacher; but had I finished and graduated from the NROTC Program, I would first have served four years as an Officer in the U.S. Navy; maybe I would then have asked to go on to Naval Flight School ( I remember, while attending a 4 H Club summer camp at Oregon State College when I was maybe 11 or 12, saying to Mary Levine who was sitting next to me (we were sort of boy girl friends then), when we were sitting in the Oregon State Auditorium watching a movie with a news clip of the submarine picking up Lt. George Bush after purportedly being shot down by the Japanese , that some someday I am going to be a Naval Aviator too; I also told her I wonder what happened to his crew members ); and I am sure I would have wanted to stay in the Navy for a full career; I am sure I would have enjoyed that, and often wished I had stayed with the Navy instead of volunteering for the USMC; just a lot of obvious advantages I passed up. Upon retirement from service as a Naval Aviator, I would have wanted to have completed Law School and passed the Bar Exam; and then while and after practicing law, specializing in real estate and insurance law, which would include minors in accounting and tax law studies, I think I would then have liked to have run for and served thru to a final retirement from the U. S. Senate. I do not believe anyone should ever enter into either a church ministry or elected public office until they have first completed a successful business or professional career and completed raising their children; while I have an interest in the Christian ministry I do not believe I have ever had a sufficient passion for it to justify that as a career focus, though I most certainly admire that passion in others who have met the success criteria that I am suggesting is the appropriate precursor to such a career ambition. In other words I do not believe that either any religious and in particular a 'Christian' ministry, or service in politics, should ever be in lieu of a job or working for a living, though the 'Ministry' is of course a very worthy 'work', as also political service should be. I am very much opposed to ministries that set up their little 'breeding pens', particularly in foreign countries, and use or 'reward' indigenous workers to minister to their physical care and pleasures; these have historically been absolutely negative models with no residual positive remnant once the hosting culture or society ultimately expunges those ministries. Similarly, societies historically suffer devastation from the purported services of mercenaries serving as their politicians. These are two areas (Ministry and Politics) that money just can not buy what is needed (by the peoples of the societies). ( After having served as a Naval Aviator and Helicopter Pilot in the USMC, I have become even more convinced than I was when I made that observation at the age of 11 or 12 that purely on the basis of logical deduction of the circumstantial evidence, that then Lt. George Bush's two episodes in downings his aircrafts, first during the Battle of The Coral Sea, and then two weeks later during his subsequent squadrons attack on a Japanese communication tower and facility were not heroic events but instead were intentional, cowardly and murderous acts to avoid participating in near suicidal mission assignments. Two weeks after his loss of the election to then President Elect Clinton a historical documentary of those events was aired, I believe it was on Channel 11 TV, or perhaps it was channel 48, our history or discovery channel. In this presentation one of his crewmen in the first downing was interview, and then one of his wingmen in the second event when instead of doing an open water ditching, as he done on his first downing (just out of anti aircraft range from his carrier, then under attack by the Japanese), he bailed out leaving his two crewmen to be lost at sea as his then pilotless plane flew on off in to oblivion, while he floated down to be picked up by the waiting submarine. In that second instance just as he started his bombing run he declared a Mayday, claiming he had been hit by anti aircraft fire; in the interview for TV Bush said he felt his aircraft jump from the explosion and assumed his crewmen were dead as he had no communication with them (the Gunner and Navigator being in the compartment to the rear of his pilot compartment. Of course the pilot totally controls the communication system to prevent inadvertent transmissions by simply switching off the Navigator or Gunner from communicating with anyone no witnesses you see.) His carrier based controller had advised him that his options were to try to make it back to the ship; that if he bailed out over the Japanese held Island the Japanese policy was to execute captured pilots on the spot; or he could try to fly out to sea 50 miles or so where a submarine would try to pick him up before the Japanese got to him. His wingman stated that he saw no evidence of smoke, fire or damage to the plane, this in a video taped interview, segments of which also include a session with then President Bush, also. Bush, rather than doing an open water ditching as he had two weeks earlier demonstrated his skill at doing and which would have permitted an opportunity for his crewmen to have also been rescued, instead bailed out, leaving his two crewmen to be lost as the plane flew on further out to sea. His crewman in the earlier downing only volunteered how grateful they were to have been saved; as there were virtually no survivors of the planes that flew on to attack the Japanese fleet. In the TV interview it was stated that a review board in the first downing allowed that his reported engine failure theoretically could have been the result of friendly fire, though neither Bush nor the crewmen commented on that possibility. The pilot does have control of the fuel switch which can easily be manipulated to simulate a failing engine. That model of Torpedo Bomber carried a huge bomb load but was a slow lumbering plane that were easily shot down by the defending anti aircraft guns of the Japanese fleet. During this TV video presentation Bush was shown numerous photos from his previous flight operations in which he was employed doing only photo reconnaissance, for which he flew above 10,000 feet, out of anti aircraft artillery range and only in operations where our Navy fighter pilots had air superiority to pretty much guarantee his safety. But during the Battle of The Coral Sea, it was an all out 'Dog Fight' in which both U.S. and Japanese forces each lost over 400 aircraft, and many Big and small ships; Bush's own carrier being under attack by the Japanese at the time he was launched, so he was then to be exposed to real combat, which he of course personally avoided by downing his aircraft. In a more recent news release it was reported that, similar to President Kennedy's PT109 boat having been found, that Bush's plane had also been found, but that he asked that the plane not be retrieved but left alone where it went down, I think for the obvious reason of not revealing any evidence of why it went down. (It interesting to me that at the time, the news on Kennedy's incident was that he was under attack by a Japanese fighter plane, and ran his boat aground to escape that attack; several years later that story changed to his boat having been cut into by a Japanese destroyer in the dark of night, and his swimming to a distant island with one of this crewman in tow, a more heroic story, if you will. Seems like in those days heroes were created as needed, facts be damned. Have things changed, now??) After those events the politically connected Lt. Bush disappears from the combat scene, to later appear at the CIA, and then as Vice President and finally as President, 'the man of character adored by the 'Christian Church'. I suspect historians will ultimately find further significant activities and involvement throughout the era's of the Kennedy Assassinations and the subsequent Iranian debacles and ongoing related evolutions in International Arms for Oil deals.)
('It seems to me that Middle American' employee's and small business owners must become responsibly, intellectually and morally, involved in our political processes rather than acting like puppets being controlled by our corporate and political bosses, and special interest lobbyists; we must come to hold ourselves responsible for inaction as much as holding our 'corporate' and political leaders and lobbyists criminally liable for their misdeeds. We need to rethink and act on circumstantial evidence; and include prosecution of softheaded 'judges' who subvert our criminal justice system with obviously biased (mis ) judgments. We must not allow ourselves to be deceived by 'evil doer's' who deflect our attention from their own misdeeds by purporting to be aggressively looking for some other fictional 'evil doer'. On Monday evening, January 6, 2004 at 10:00PM I tuned in to C Span to a live broadcast of an interview speech by Kevin Phillips on his book he has recently released titled 'American Dynasty' in which he has traced the trail of the Bush Family 'dynasty' starting in the 1920's forward to the present. He points out that his book is based entirely on information in the 'public record'; he cites the New York area 'Green Book', a directory of corporate Boards of Directors as one of his most productive and revealing information sources.)
Original Message
Sent: Friday, September 24, 2004 8:48 PM
Subject: Re: Confirmation of receipt of package
(To My Oldest Son) A week or so ago, I watched the tail end of a C Span discussion with
Author, Kitty Kelly on her new book 'The Family: The Real Story of The Bush
Dynasty'; she apparently has a couple of earlier books that are also
poignant discussions of presidential politics. She obviously is not popular
with the Bush family; sounds like it will be an exciting read. She has a
real sparkling personality. Similarly about a month ago I watched a
discussion on C Span by Rep. Tom Tancredo, R Colorado, in which he discussed
a recent book by Samuel Huntington, "Who Are We'. Rep. Tancredo had spoken
to a high school class in his district in Colorado where he posed the
question something along the lines of 'What does being an American mean to
you'. He points out that no student or teacher dared to answer, because as
he points out they were all petrified afraid to offend others by saying
what being an American meant to them individually, the fear being that to be
politically correct in that atmosphere where they are being taught to
accommodate diversity really in fact means suppressing or denying who they
are themselves. He went on to amplify with his experience in Congress, and
in discussions with the Mexican Ambassador on the issues involved in illegal
Mexican Immigrants and Immigration broadly; he cites some really alarming
things that are going on. We are literally being invaded by millions of
illegal immigrants, and no politician dares to speak out about the problem;
The Bush administration thinks its good for business to ignore the problem.
Would challenge you and your siblings to become informed citizens; and then
tell me just how bigoted you really think I am. I am having another round
with Microsoft on resolving problems with my MSN e mail; in which I have had
two discussions with an Indian lad in Bombay, India; Very Polite, but
totally ignorant or incompetent.. it is very frustrating...
Original Message
Sent: Tuesday, January 13, 2004 2:31 AM
Subject: RE: Case SRZ031203000596 : ESC INR Winup WinXP Initialization Error
(To My Oldest Son) I am imbedding my responses, point by point in your message below.
I did resolve the problem; not sure if Microsoft had anything to do with it
though I suspect they modified the online update routine to bring up an
'Update Wizard' that stalled twice and then on the third try made a 76MB
download which took 6 hours to download and another couple of hours to
install; which I suspect was a reload and install of the entire Windows XP.
I had purchased my laptop 30 days before XP was released in the face of an
add that said XP would be included when it was released. However Dell
rewrote the lease and left that out which I overlooked; after a couple of
months when I didn't get the update I asked them to send it as promised but
they refused to. I then discovered that they had made the deletion in the
final version of the lease. Neither Dell nor Microsoft would make good on
that. I then purchased three updates, one for my laptop, one for my desk
top and one for June's computer. My laptop loaded without a hitch, but my
desktop was a nightmare. Because I did not try to load it until several
months after I got it neither Dell not Microsoft would help with the
installation problem, and I had to pay their 35.00 charge 'per incident' to
get that problem resolved. After spending probably close to 15 hours in 4
sessions on the phone and with out their succeeding in resolving that
problem I then worked on my own and am not sure just what I did but all of a
sudden after many crashes and restarts it suddenly started working,
apparently ok. After another couple of months I finally tried to load the
update on June's computer and discovered that disc was flawed and it would
not load. Again because it was beyond 30 days from the date of purchase
neither Dell nor Microsoft would exchange or replace the flawed disc. They
were both ' as holes' and refused to replace or exchange the flawed
disc. My then Serbian friend suggested I use one of the other two copies
but with the Product Key from the flawed disc. (I don't see my Serbian
friend much anymore as he was becoming a very negative impact on me with his
persistent alcoholism, which he keeps reverting too. It was just too much
of a drain on me when he and his wife would call me for help dealing with
the recurring problems he got into because of his drinking. Last time I saw
him we left with him hugging me, but he hasn't called for about six months
now, which I hope is a good sign.) Anyway, that worked and the installation
appeared to be working properly. I was subsequently told that in both or
all three cases, I was supposed to have first uninstalled the original
version and then re installed the Upgrade version. In the most recent
situation I was afraid to do that for fear of losing some or all of my other
installed programs and data. The typical response with the Microsoft
support personnel, was to re format my hard drive, which, to me was a
totally unacceptable approach as I would lost all my loaded programs and
personal date which on my desktop is about 15 GB; which is a major
catastrophe for me.
Dad,
You have pointed out a very difficult dilemma. Did you get any resolution
on this?
Thoughts:
Symantec's Norton System Works has a utility called WinDoctor that
identifies and corrects some registry problems. If you have not had any
further luck with the technical support, that might be another avenue to
pursue.
Do you have any firmware patches that need to be performed?
(Me)I do use Norton System Works (Professional on all three of the computers,
and because of the amount of programs and changes find the Norton WinDoctor
very useful in resolving many problems. It was not of any help with the
problem on (My Wifes ) computer.
Someone mentioned MS may no longer supporting Windows 98 beginning this
month.
That is possible; though in my opinion not reasonable. Many user's simply
have no need to update. However, Windows 98 was a 16 bit program, whereas
Windows 98 Second Edition, and forward are 32 bit programs, and virtually
all new programs are 32, or maybe it is now 64 bit programs with XP and
forward; I am not sure about the 64 bit scene. I wonder when we move forward
to Pentium 5, which I suppose will be 128 bit software. Have not heard any
mention of that; probable just not cost effective; though the Pentium 4 has
been a terrific evolution.
Have you tried running regedit to check the registry yourself?
Editing or changing the Registry is much to complex for me to experiment
with. On several occasions with my Gateway Pentium Pro, and a couple of
times on my Pentium 4 Desktop Microsoft people have walked me though the
Regedit route, and I was expecting them to suggest going that route on
(MY Wifes ) computer, but none of the people I was communicating with were smart
enough to get into that. For the last maybe three years those support
people have been mostly Canadians, though a couple of times they bumped me up
a tier where I was working with individual in the U.S., never in the same
location. Sounds like most of them work by phone out of there home's; not a
bad idea I suppose. This last round, the first two were Indians, who
obviously did not have a good command of the English language, and even more
obviously had absolutely no competence; They were just pure bullshitters
trying to impress someone with how smart they were going off in to
farfetched scenarios that completely ignored the problem I was having. To a
lesser degree this was also true with the Canadians. After the third round
with the Indians, another person intervened, who I suspect was Canadian, but
even he never did respond to the problem I had, and none of them would make
any positive response to my questions; they would simply divert with another
inappropriate suggestion. Earlier, I was most impressed with the skill of
the domestic 'male' people; but universally, not just some, but every
female were clearly incompetent liars, just pure lying bullshitters ; their
simplistic solution was to reformat my hard drive; just no comprehension of
the problems the were creating for me in their inappropriate diagnoses and
every one of them left me with a nightmare situation that I eventually had to
resolve on my own.
Presumably, you have searched on the MS web site for the error text.
I found no error test for the problem I was having, the error message
provided no error code; It simply said that the update I was trying to
install did not match my operating system. The Operating System was clearly
coming up as Window XP, and the Updates the system was finding and
downloading were clearly Windows XP; But repeatedly after downloading them
that same message would come up after starting the installation.
There are also some books on the Windows registry that might show you the
problem and how to correct it.
I sure this is true; but I did not feel I had the time to educate myself on
editing the Windows registry; actually I am not satisfied that we are
talking about a Windows Registry problem, but rather I think the topic is more
likely the computer system registry, which is a bag of worms that one error
can totally zero out every thing on the computer; which is not a direction I
can afford to go; That is a problem that virtually no service person I have
ever know was competent to diagnose and correct; it would cost as much or
more to resolve than to buy an entirely new computer, which is beyond my
capacity to deal with.
Regarding the slams on third world origin status, I'm not certain I agree
with the open hostility. It could be interpreted as racism, arrogance,
insecurity, ignorance, or taken as an offense by a non Christian. From my
personal experience, I've always found these types of attacks do not ever
really buy anything toward resolving the problem.
(To My Oldest Son), I would agree only to the extent that it would be unwise for anyone
in an enslaved position such as you and your siblings are in to expose such
feelings in an employment environment, so I do not suggest you should become
involved in that manner yourself. However, unless and until we each
individually and collectively intelligently addresses the several problems
you allude to you, not just myself, are and will continue to be the victim
of these problems. My anger is directed not at the workers in the third
world countries but at our own 'Corporate and Lazy Middle Class Americans'
who are selling out the United States for momentary gain and privilege;
They, which includes you, are strangling the Goose that lays the Golden
Eggs. I would ask that you give attention and thought to just who you are,
where you are and where you and yours are going to end up. Instead of
acting like helpless sheep being led to your own slaughter, I would like to
see you and your sibling exhibit leadership and social responsibility. That
begins with acquiring an understanding of just what the hell is happening to
you; what the dynamics of mankind are. You need to understand that it was
Christian leadership that inspired and built this nation and that the God Of
Christ Jesus will not tolerate a people who abandon him; please for my sake,
because you are all I have, lead yourself, your family, and your siblings
into the community of active believing Christians; become an active member
of a Bible Reading Congregation. Do not continue to dishonor the many men
and women who have lost their lives and fortunes fighting to create and
defend this nation that you by your inaction are now destroying. Your
leadership by example is the only hope the non Christian world has. Just
as you tend to despise me, to the extent that you proclaim but do not act
out Christian Leadership, the non Christian world also despises you; I take
comfort in the words of J. Vernon McGee, who said that he preferred to be
known by who his self declared enemies were.
I will diverse for just a moment with an experience (MY wife) recently exposed me
to. She plays tennis often three times a week with a group of mostly
Jewish, Indian (Virtually all Hindu) and Korean (Mostly, quiet non vocal
Christian) doctor's wives, and occasionally the doctor husbands also play.
About three weeks ago one of the Indian women who's husband is a heart
surgeon threw a party at her rather elaborate home in a private gated
community. The house is loaded with mostly Hindu statues and artifacts they
have collected on their world travel. They are quite intense in their
practice of their Hindu beliefs Religion if you will. If you have not you
should educate yourself of the religious practices of Hindus, Muslims and
Jews in particular and also the likes of Mormons and Jehovah Witnesses; by
Christian standards they are, some what like Catholics, rather heathenistic
in their worship of idols and the like. You may not be aware of it, but the
Indians being largely Hindus, are particular pagonistic in their worship:
During World War II the Indians, because the had such a deep hatred of the
Colonial rule under the English, refused to join or support the Western
Allies against Hitler and the Japanese, and in fact joined the Axis of
Hitler and the Japanese. About midway through the war the U. S. forces
attacked and defeated in a pitch battle a Japanese contingent that were guest
of the Indians; After this defeat the Indian government went underground in
their opposition to us and the Allies, but they have never really like the
U.S. Any way at this Indian's party the lady took pride in showing us their
Hindu Shrine where every day after taking a bath and cleaning themselves up
each member of the family steps into this closet size Hindu Shrine to pray.
The striking thing about the shrine was the large German Swastika inlaid in
the floor. It is obviously imbedded in the Indian Hindu folk lore; and I
doubt these Indians are smart enough to know it's significance. I have
never had either successful or good business relationship with an Indian,
nor for that matter a Muslim or a Jew, and don't know anyone else who has.
(My wife) ( I) were invited to this party solely as an attempt to entice us into
accepting their religion; they had absolute no respect for or interest in
our own faith. Anyway, it is almost impossible to not have an Indian
doctor come into the scene anytime one is admitted to a hospital or is
referred out to a specialist: I just shudder to think about the quality of
care that is possible for one who is ignorant enough to subscribe to one of
those heathenistic religions; and I see the same quality coming out of these
specialist Microsoft is using to replace our domestic talent.
A few weeks ago, I was watching C SPAN for a few minutes and the speaker was
commenting on the attention Congress is giving to the out sourcing of our
high tech and manufacturing jobs to the third world. He noted that India is
now boosting that they now are the new 'Silicon Valley' of the world having
75 of the World's high tech jobs, which is in excess of 100,000 such jobs.
Free Trade was a part of this discussion. Supposedly international Free
Trade, meaning no tariffs, was supposed to work by creating buying power of
the workers in third world countries, so that they would then be able to buy
our U.S. made products. But of course that is not what is happening, any
more than leveraged buyouts by Monopolistic capital interests is working any
differently here in the U.S. As I have noted earlier, Unregulated Free
Enterprise is absolute the worst form of Government ever advocate; whereas a
Regulated Free Enterprise is absolutely the best form of Government. The
speaker noted that those third world workers are still living in as much
squalor as they were before the jobs came. The corporations are keeping
their profits; not sharing them with the workers. The same principles (and
principals) are working worldwide to destroy competition with the rich
getting richer and the poor getting poorer. An extension of the thought:
Monday evening, January 6, 2004 at 10:00PM I tuned in to C Span to a
live broadcast of an interview speech by Kevin Phillips on his book he has
recently released titled 'American Dynasty' in which he has traced the trail
of the Bush Family 'dynasty' starting in the 1920's forward to the present.
He points out that his book is based entirely on information in the 'public
record'; he cites the New York area 'Green Book', a directory of corporate
Boards of Directors as one of his most productive and revealing information
sources. He notes the deceitful practices of Bush One and Bush Two; It is
all to obvious who the real 'evil ones' are.
So, (My Oldest Son), just remember that you along with your siblings, and my
grandchildrens own the future so when you turn your nose up at those who are
and become upset with the 'Republican' status quo it is you and yours who
are going to pay the price; I and my generation won't be here that much
longer
The truth is that it probably detracts from the questioning of the
technical competence of the individual, the leadership team, and the organization at
which your anger and resentment are directed.
HUH!
I am not a legal professional, however, consider the following facts:
you have repeatedly attempted to resolve a faulty upgrade process over
which you have no control,
I do not agree!
you still desire to use the product,
True
you have exercised good faith in attempting to resolve the issues,
True
you have invested an unreasonable number of hours,
Not By Choice, but rather necessity!
you have invested in the product, and
True
(I am assuming) you have a valid license for the upgraded product(s).
True
Personally, I think you'd be better off asking them for a "Free" disk with
Windows XP and a valid license to be shipped off to you, next day express.
Been there, Done That to no avail!
Since you own the disks for the upgrades, this should be viewed as a
reasonable request, considering your efforts to date.
True!
Bottom line is, it is probably not worth the heartache you are putting
yourself through, even though you are technically RIGHT. Cost wise, it is
more efficient to go out and purchase XP (non upgrade version), and
install it fresh onto the machine in question. Providing the hardware is
compatible, this will probably be the most expedient route to getting the
computer back running again. Protect yourself from the frustration and
stress these people are putting you through.
No reason to believe that would have worked! Considering the results I
noted above you are correct that it was a flawed product, but it appears that the cure
had to come from Microsoft as it did. I suspect that Windows XP as it was originally
introduce which was the version I had installed, imbedded an imperfection that was installed with the
original disc and need to be expunged as it apparently was to correct the problem. I suspect that my
'hostility' was successfully communicated and solution was surreptitiously imbedded in the online
download.
I have found in the past that Microsoft will never admit to a problem or
error; it is a yuppie mentality; they simply talk in circles until someone else resolves the issue or go away.
Unfortunately, filing a complaint with small claims court or the better
business bureau might be an exercise that could very well exceed your or
even my life span. Based on the results of the previous antitrust lawsuit
by multiple states, the American public has already spoken out loudly
about these and many other integrity problems with this particular software
vendor. If a 1 billion dollar PUBLIC ANTITRUST lawsuit did not get
through, it is unlikely that anything ever will. This is a black hole
which continues to suck up your time, your productivity, your money, your
resources, and still continues to grow 'denser' by the minute.
While what you say is 90 true it does not provide any relief. There simply
isno other product that does what Windows and related Microsoft products do.
Contrary to what you say the lawsuits have resulted in significant improvements in
Microsoft products and in the Corporate management style. The complaints I have with Microsoft are
not that different than problems with any other Corporation or business. I simply will not
endure quietly; and yes I will become very hostile and angry; and this does produce positive results.
Perhaps a stronger Christian than I would point out that the Biblical principles of escalation for conflict resolution as described in the new testament might be in order. Rebuke them in the various required
escalated settings, then if they do not change, accept it and treat them like a tax collector or a sinner.
I do not have enough time left in my life to exercise any patience with rascals. I do
hope to be patient with anyone who is being honest and forthright, even if wrong.
I recall a movie about Norman Vincent Peale, author of several
inspirational books, who once responded to questions regarding his pursuit of the woman
who would later become his wife something to the effect of "I'm not the only guy on the block. She can say 'No' anytime she wants to. But until she makes her intentions clear to me, I will continue courting her."
Not sure what your point is, but if there is a parallel; Microsoft is the only girl, not just on
the block, but in the whole damn world.
You deserve to be treated with respect. You are free to make your own choice of software vendors, and hardware manufacturers.
If you care to prove your point then share with me who is another vendor that comes even remotely
close to Microsoft. There simply is none, so I encourage you not to talk nonsense.
Love,
(My Oldest Son)
By Donna Miles
American Forces Press Service
Feb. 2, 2007 The United States has no plans to go to war with Iran, but it won't tolerate Iranian activities that are endangering U.S. troops in Iraq, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates told reporters today during a Pentagon news conference. "The president has made clear, the secretary of state has made clear, I've made clear ... we are not planning for a war with Iran," Gates said in response to a reporter's question.
Rather, he said, the United States is working "to counter what the Iranians are doing to our soldiers," most significantly their activities related to explosively formed projectiles, or EFPs, that are killing U.S. troops. EFPs are far more lethal than more traditional improvised explosive devices, Gates said, noting they are capable of taking out an M1 A2 Abrams tank.
"And so our effort is aimed at uprooting the networks that are providing these EFPS," as well as IEDs, to al Qaeda and other groups, Gates said. "These darn things account for about 70 percent of our casualties. And so there's a huge effort under way to try and uproot these networks and try to stop this."
"We are working day and night to disassemble these networks" that do everything from providing materials to construct these explosives to building them to delivering them and the firing devices," Pace told reporters. "And we do that without regard to nationality, but just with regard to who our enemies are."
Pace called it "instructive" that twice during the last month to 40 days, while "going after the networks, we have picked up Iranians."
"They happened to be policed up amongst the bad guys," he said.
Gates said he doesn't know at this point if the Iranian government or rogue elements within Iran are involved.
Multinational Force Iraq officials are preparing a briefing that will provide specifics about how Iranians supply these weapons, but Gates said he, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and National Security Advisor Steve Hadley asked them to delay it.
"(We) want to make sure that the briefing that is provided is absolutely accurate and is dominated by facts serial numbers, technology and so on," he said. "And so we just want to make sure that the briefing that is provided is completely reliable."
The secretary declined to discuss if Iranians played any role in the Jan. 20 attack on the Provincial Joint Coordination Center in Karbala, Iraq, telling reporters the incident remains under investigation. In that incident, enemy fighters dressed in U.S. Army style combat uniforms and carrying U.S. type weapons penetrated Iraqi checkpoints, then went on to capture and kill four soldiers.
The secretary emphasized that deploying a second aircraft carrier, the USS John C. Stennis, to the Persian Gulf isn't a direct response to Iran. Rather, he said, it's designed to send a message to friends and potential adversaries alike.
"The purpose of that is simply to underscore to our friends, as well as to our potential adversaries in the region, that the United States has considered the Persian Gulf and that whole area the stability in that area to be a vital national interest," he said.
This policy has remained constant for decades and under numerous presidential administrations, he noted. "We simply want to reinforce to our friends, in particular, that they can count on us having a presence and being strong in their area in protecting our interests and in protecting theirs," he said.
As it addresses the immediate issue of potential Iranian support for activities endangering U.S. troops, Gates said another U.S. concern about Iran's nuclear enrichment program is being addressed "strictly through the diplomatic process."
"It seems to be showing some progress," he said.
This article is sponsored by criminal justice online leadership ; and, police and military personnel who have become writers by authoring books.
By Gerry J. Gilmore
American Forces Press Service
Feb. 1, 2007 African Americans have a long tradition of honorable and distinguished service in America's armed forces, going back 231 years to the nation's birth and even before. For example, Crispus Attucks was among a group of outraged colonists protesting English rule who died from British soldiers' bullets during the Boston Massacre on March 5, 1770. Two other people also were immediately killed, and two others died of their wounds as a result of the encounter.
Attucks' name is the only one Americans commonly remember as among the victims of the shooting. A monument honoring him was placed on Boston Common in 1888.
Five years after the Boston Massacre, Peter Salem was among many African Americans who fought with other American colonists against the British over possession of Breed's Hill outside Boston. Commonly and mistakenly known as the "Battle of Bunker Hill," the engagement was fought on June 17, 1775. It was one of the first military engagements of the Revolution.
Salem survived that battle and mortally wounded the British commander who led the fourth and last charge that secured the hill. Salem was commended for his enterprise and courage at Breed's Hill and during subsequent engagements. On a citation signed by 14 senior officers, he was described as "a brave and gallant soldier" who "behaved like an experienced officer."
It's estimated that 5,000 African Americans fought on the patriot side during the American Revolutionary War that spanned from 1775 to 1783.
About 180,000 African Americans wore Union blue and earned praise for their military skill during the American Civil War, fought 1861 1865.
Early in the war, U.S. government skepticism over African Americans' fighting abilities had kept them mostly off the battlefield. That would change later in the war, when emerging manpower shortages coerced the Union to enlist thousands of African American troops for front line duty.
Union soldiers of the 1st Kansas Colored Volunteer Regiment achieved military respect on July 17, 1863, by routing a Confederate force after two hours of hard fighting at Honey Springs, in present day Oklahoma.
"I never saw such fighting as was done by the Negro regiment," Union Commander Gen. James G. Blunt wrote after the Honey Springs battle. "The question that Negroes will fight is settled. Besides, they make better soldiers in every respect than any troops I have ever had under my command."
African American troops fighting for the Union distinguished themselves again at the Battle of Chaffin's Farm, Va., which was fought on Sept. 29, 1864. After being pinned down by Confederate artillery fire for 30 minutes, the African American division of the U.S. 18th Corps charged the enemy's earthworks and rushed up the surrounding slopes. The division suffered massive casualties during the hour long engagement. Of the 25 African Americans who received the Medal of Honor during the Civil War, 14 were so honored as the result of their service at Chaffin's Farm.
America expanded westward after the Civil War ended, and soldiers were needed to protect settlers and the railroads from Indian attacks. Although Lt. Col. George A. Custer's 7th Cavalry Regiment is known for its fights against the plains Indians, the 9th and 10th U.S. Cavalry Regiments also gained fame for their exploits against the Indians, both on the plains and in the southwest.
Established in 1866, the 9th and 10th regiments were made up of African American enlisted soldiers who were usually commanded by white commissioned officers. The Indians respected the African American cavalrymen and called them "Buffalo Soldiers" for their fighting prowess.
Army Lt. Henry O. Flipper graduated from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point on June 14, 1877, the first African American to do so and the U.S. military's first African American commissioned officer. Flipper was assigned to the 10th Cavalry Regiment, where he earned praise for his selfless, capable service. Yet later, Flipper was accused of embezzling government funds. He was tried and judged not guilty of embezzlement, but was dismissed from the service for misconduct in December 1881. After an inquiry, the Department of the Army cleared Flipper of all charges on Dec. 13, 1976, and he was honorably discharged.
During the course of the Indian Wars fought from 1866 to the early 1890s, 13 enlisted men and six officers from the 9th and 10th regiments and two African American infantry units earned the Medal of Honor.
During the Spanish American War, African American soldiers with the 9th and 10th Cavalry Regiments and the 24th and 25th Infantry Regiments fought alongside Lt. Col. Teddy Roosevelt and his volunteer unit of "Rough Riders," and defeated Spanish troops at the Battles of Kettle Hill and San Juan Heights, Cuba, on July 1, 1898.
Five African American soldiers earned Medals of Honor for their heroism during the Spanish American War. Many African American households proudly acquired prints featuring resolute, African American troops charging up San Juan Hill with Roosevelt and his volunteers.
African American troops again served with distinction during World War I, fought between 1914 and 1918. Although U.S. military units remained segregated by race, African Americans eagerly volunteered for military service following America's entry into the conflict in April 1917. By the war's end in November 1918, more than 350,000 African Americans had served with the American Expeditionary Force on the western front in Europe.
Soldiers with the U.S. 369th Infantry Regiment were known as the "Harlem Hellfighters" and served on the front lines for six months, longer than any other African American regiment in the war. They fought and won alongside the French against the Germans during the pitched battles at Chateau Thierry and Belleau Wood. The 369th's documented exploits on the western front earned it world respect; 171 of its officers and men received the Legion of Merit. And members of the unit were the first Americans to be awarded the French Croix de Guerre for valor.
African American soldier Cpl. Freddie Stowers also heroically served with the U.S. 371st Infantry Regiment in France during World War I. Despite two wounds, Stowers continued to lead his men during an attack on German trenches on Sept. 28, 1918. The enemy positions were ultimately taken by the Americans. Stowers died from his wounds. He was recommended to receive the Medal of Honor for his actions, but the nomination paperwork was allegedly misplaced.
In 1991, President George H.W. Bush presented the Medal of Honor to Stowers' relatives in recognition of the corporal's exploits in France 73 years before. Stowers became the only African American who served during World War I to be awarded the nation's highest military honor.
America was again engaged in a global war after the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on Dec. 7, 1941. African American serviceman Navy Ship's Cook 3rd Class Dorie Miller distinguished himself during the Pearl Harbor attack and won the Navy Cross. Miller voluntarily manned an anti aircraft gun and shot down four Japanese planes, despite his lack of gunnery training.
During World War II, more than 1 million African Americans answered the nation's call, despite the continuance of segregated units and discrimination. Civil rights leaders of that time saw military service as a way for African Americans to achieve long denied rights and respect.
African Americans served with distinction in units such as the 761st Tank Battalion, the 555th Infantry Parachute Battalion, the 99th Pursuit Squadron, and the 332nd Fighter Group. The 3rd Army's march across Europe under Gen. George S. Patton after D Day was facilitated by African American quartermaster troops who drove supply trucks for the "Red Ball Express."
Benjamin O. Davis Sr. became the first African American general officer in the regular Army and the U.S. armed forces when he was promoted to brigadier general on Aug. 1, 1941. Davis was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal for his work as inspector of African American troop units during the war. In 1954, Davis's son, Benjamin O. Davis Jr., would become the first African American general in the U.S. Air Force .
Yet, at first, there were no African American Medal of Honor recipients from World War II. After an Army study, that oversight was rectified on Jan. 13, 1997, when President Bill Clinton presented Medals of Honor to families of seven World War II era African American servicemen. One, Army 1st Lt. Vernon Baker, was the only recipient still living and present to receive his award. The other six soldiers received their medals posthumously.
Near the end of World War II, an Army survey conducted in May and June of 1945 asked white officers and noncommissioned officers about the performance of about 2,500 African American troops who had volunteered for combat duty in the European theater of operations. More than 80 percent of leaders interviewed said that African American soldiers had performed very well in combat. And, 69 percent of officers and 83 percent of the NCOs queried said they saw no reason why African American infantrymen should not perform as well as white soldiers if both had had the same training and experience.
A majority of officers in the survey also approved of integrating African American platoons within white company units. However, many senior military leaders at that time remained reluctant to move toward total integration.
Other surveys conducted by the U.S. government after the war cited the unfairness and inefficiency of having segregated military units. President Harry S. Truman's Committee on Civil Rights' landmark report, titled, "To Secure These Rights," condemned racial segregation wherever it existed and specifically criticized the practice of segregation in the U.S. armed forces. The report, issued on Oct. 29, 1947, recommended legislation and administrative action "to end immediately all discrimination and segregation based on race, color, creed or national origin" in all branches of the U.S. military.
Truman decided to end segregation in the armed forces and the civil service by administrative action through an executive order, rather than by legislation. On July 26, 1948, he signed Executive Order 9981. It states: "It is hereby declared to be the policy of the president that there shall be equality of treatment and opportunity for all persons in the armed services without regard to race, color, religion, or national origin." The order also established a presidential committee on equality of treatment and opportunity in the armed services.
The Korean War erupted in June 1950 and somewhat slowed the implementation of Truman's order. However, more than 600,000 African Americans served in the armed forces during the war. Two African American Army sergeants, Cornelius H. Charlton and William Thompson, earned the Medal of Honor during the conflict, which ended in 1953.
"Project Clear" conducted by Johns Hopkins University and released in 1954, studied the effects of segregation and integration in the Army both in the United States and in Korea. The report concluded that racially segregated units negatively affected Army efficiency, while integration enhanced military readiness. By the end of 1954, the last all African American unit had been disbanded, while African American enlistment in the military grew.
In June 1961, the Defense Department issued a directive designed to eliminate off post discrimination. By 1963, commanders were made responsible to ensure that their troops were treated fairly by off post landlords.
During the Vietnam War (1962 75) African Americans continued to join the armed forces in large numbers. Many volunteered to join the prestigious and high risk airborne and air mobile helicopter combat units.
Future Air Force Gen. Daniel "Chappie" James Jr., a graduate of the African American pilot training program conducted at then Tuskegee College, later Tuskegee University, Ala., during World War II, flew 78 combat missions into North Vietnam. James later became the first four star African American general in the U.S. armed forces. There were 20 African American Medal of Honor recipients during the Vietnam War.
African American enlistment into the U.S. military jumped with the advent of the all volunteer force in 1973. African Americans made up about 17 percent of the military's enlisted force when the draft ended in 1973. By the early 1980s, African Americans made up nearly 24 percent of the enlisted force.
And when the United States and its allies pushed Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein's forces out of Kuwait in 1991, the most senior officer in the U.S. military was an African American, Army Gen. Colin L. Powell, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Powell later served as Secretary of State in President George W. Bush's administration.
And today, African Americans continue to answer duty's call as members of the U.S. armed forces during the war against global terrorism. During a recent Army commemoration of the work and birthday of civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., guest speaker Andrew J. Young Jr. remarked that the U.S. military fulfills King's dream of equality and social justice for all by its practice of promoting people based on individual merit, rather than by ethnic makeup.
Servicemembers "appreciate the diversity of this nation, and you fight to defend the freedoms and opportunities of all of our citizens," Young said at the observance. "And that is what makes the military a leader in our society."
Article sponsored by criminal justice online leadership ; and, police and military personnel who have authored books.
February 3, 2007
I've sent copies of Mark Twain's REFLECTIONS ON RELIGION to Barack, Hilary, Bill, Howard Dean,
Bill and Melinda Gates, Pres. Shrub Bush....
1 3 of Evangelicals shift
Religion is dying! The November elections were about truth, religious contradictions in Iraq and religious hypocrisy in America. 1 3 of Evangelical Christians shifted left away from the Conservative right. Two days before the election the head of the National ASSociation of Evangelicals (who was also fired by his 14,000 member church in Colorado Springs, CO) lost his job because of his lack of values. 60 of the under 30 vote went left. 38 of the under 30 vote stayed with their Sunday School lessons. Several grassroots efforts were made by bloggers that put people in office with better information than their opponents. I have joined Barack Obama's support team.
That was a pretty big hole Biden dug for himself might be record time. I can already hear Preacher Lady getting spun up...
I'll leave it to Joe Biden to explain (or figure out) why he used "clean" as one of a logorrheic string of adjectives describing his Senate colleague Barack Obama. I'm not sure his initial revision and extension of his remarks that he meant "clean as a whistle" get him off the hook. Just a suggestion, but Biden might fall back to "clean as the Board of Health," meaning sharply dressed; the last time I saw Obama he was, indeed, wearing an impeccable navy suit.
For anyone who missed it, Biden explained Obama's appeal as a presidential candidate by calling him "the first mainstream African American who is articulate and bright and clean and a nice looking guy." He was talking to a reporter for the New York Observer, who recorded the interview; an audio clip was soon posted on the Internet.
Will wonders never cease? Here we have a man who graduated from Columbia University, who was president of the Harvard Law Review, who serves in the U.S. Senate and is the author of two best selling books , who's a leading contender for the Democratic presidential nomination, and what do you know, he turns out to be articulate . Stop the presses.
It's interesting that Obama's reaction dealt solely with the A word. "I didn't take Senator Biden's comments personally, but obviously they were historically inaccurate," he said in a statement. "African American presidential candidates like Jesse Jackson, Shirley Chisholm, Carol Moseley Braun and Al Sharpton gave a voice to many important issues through their campaigns, and no one would call them inarticulate."
Source: Eugene Robinson An Inarticulate Kickoff washingtonpost.com
News Alert: Israel 15th of Sh'vat 5767
Saturday 3rd February 2007
Terrorist Released by Israel Cleared in US Trial on Hamas Aid Charges
Arutz Sheva Israel
... on Friday two Arabs accused of carrying out what prosecutors said was a 15 year conspiracy to illegally finance Hamas terrorist activities in Israel . ...
See all stories on this topic
Scandals tighten noose around Israel
The News International Pakistan
He is suspected of intervening to help a friend while acting finance minister in 2005 during the privatisation of Israel s second largest bank. ...
See all stories on this topic
West abandoning hope Hamas will drop anti Israel stance; seek new ...
Montreal Gazette Montreal,Quebec,Canada
WASHINGTON World powers have largely abandoned hope that Hamas will drop anti Israel positions that have riven the Palestinian leadership and led to a ...
See all stories on this topic
Olmert: Winograd panel agrees ground push was necessary
Ha'aretz Tel Aviv,Israel
That morning, Olmert had received the most recent draft of the resolution, which Israel interpreted as favoring the Lebanese French position. ...
See all stories on this topic
Egypt charges four with spying for Israel
Malaysia Star Petaling Jaya,Malaysia
CAIRO (Reuters) Egypt has charged an Egyptian who holds Canadian citizenship and three Israelis with spying for Israel , a state prosecutor said on ...
See all stories on this topic
VIEW: Fallout of Lebanese war roils Israel Ahmad Faruqui
Daily Times Lahore,Pakistan
Halutz s departure, much as it reflects on the strategic myopia of his generalship, is a tribute to Israel s polity. After his botched war effort, ...
See all stories on this topic
Furore over Jewish critics' challenge to state of Israel
Guardian Unlimited UK
and immoral,' told the New York Times he was convinced that leading Jewish voices simply wanted to stifle any harsh criticism of Israel . ...
Educating Rice
ZNet Woods Hole,MA,USA
A fundamental obligation of the roadmap is that Israel stop all settlement activities in the occupied Palestinian territories. ...
See all stories on this topic
Chicago Bears defensive tackle Israel Idonije. (Wilfredo Lee AP)
ChronicleHerald.ca Halifax,Nova Scotia,Canada
MIAMI Israel Idonije thought he d be in the NBA, playing with Michael Jordan and the Chicago Bulls. And Dan Federkeil acknowledges he s not even much of a ...
Hillary calls Iran a threat to US, Israel
The Muslim News UK
Calling Iran a danger to the United States and one of Israel's greatest threats, Senator and presidential candidate Hillary Rodham Clinton said "no option ...
See all stories on this topic
The New York Times: DealBook TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES Friday, February 2, 2007
M A: Equity Office Board Supports Blackstone Offer
INVESTMENT BANKING: Santander Takes Stake in Italy's Capitalia
I.P.O.S OFFERINGS: Theater Chain Previews 400 Million Stock Sale
VENTURE CAPITAL: RPath Nabs 9.1 Million From Investors
PRIVATE EQUITY: Carlyle's Great Experiment
LEGAL: Court Rejects Tax Shelter Once Sold by KPMG
HEDGE FUNDS: Senate Report Says S.E.C. Botched Hedge Fund Inquiry
Visit the DealBook Web site for updates throughout the day.
E mail Preferences Advertising Opportunities Help
Blackstone Group , Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and CVC Capital Partners said they are considering an offer for J. Sainsbury , the No. 3 supermarket chain in the United Kingdom, in what would be Europe's biggest leveraged buyout. Sainsbury shares soared as much as 18 percent Friday, giving the London based company a market value of 8.8 billion pounds ( 17.3 billion).
The buyout firms said in a statement that they are in the "preliminary stages" of assessing Sainsbury and may not bid. If they do, they could face a
challenge. In the past year or so, several private equity funds have failed in their attempts to acquire U.K. companies, as shareholders held out for higher prices.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
Go to Article from Reuters
Advertisement
nytimes.com movies
Complete coverage of the Golden Globes, the Oscars and everything in between Also in Movies:
Scenes from this year's most intriguing films
Blogging Videos on all things Oscar
Equity Office Properties Trust , the office landlord at the center of a takeover battle, on Friday reaffirmed its support for a 38.3 billion, all cash bid from private equity firm Blackstone Group , saying it was less risky for shareholders than a 41 billion cash and stock offer from Vornado Realty Trust . Equity Office also said a vote on Blackstone's offer will probably take place Feb. 7, two days later than previously planned, to give shareholders time to review new information about the bid.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
Go to Press Release from Equity Office Properties
Go to Article from The New York Times
Essent and Nuon , two Dutch utilities, announced a merger agreement that would create a 24 billion euro ( 31 billion) energy giant. Elsewhere in Europe, Gas Natural dropped its 24 billion euro offer for rival Endesa , clearing the way for Germany's E.ON to buy the Spanish energy utility.
Go to Article from TheDeal.com
Go to Article from TheDeal.com
Coca Cola said yesterday that it had agreed to buy Fuze Beverage to add more juice, tea and energy drinks in an effort to catch up with PepsiCo .
Go to Article from Bloomberg News via The New
York Times
American Standard 's shares soared Thursday after the company said it would carve itself into three separate companies through a spinoff of its vehicle control systems unit and a sale of its kitchen and bath fixtures business.
Go to Article from The Associated Press via Yahoo News
Go to Previous Item from DealBook
Pfizer is acquiring a small Pennsylvania start up developing experimental treatments for Type 2 diabetes.
Go to Article from The Philadelphia Inquirer
In what can't possibly be music to Corus shareholders' ears, Indian steel magnate Ratan Tata has said he would have been prepared to pay even more to clinch control of the Anglo Dutch steelmaker.
Go to Article from The Times of India
Go to Article from The Guardian
British construction group Balfour
Beatty said yesterday it was buying U.S. rival Centex Construction for 362 million in cash.
Go to Article from The Guardian
Hospira , a hospital products maker, said Thursday that it had completed the 2.1 billion acquisition of Mayne Pharma Limited , an Australian maker of generic cancer medicines and other specialized injectable drugs.
Go to Article from The Chicago Tribune
LVMH , the French luxury conglomerate, is set to buy sports car maker Aston Martin
from Ford Motor , according to an unsourced report in the German trade publication Autobild, MarketWatch said.
Go to Article from MarketWatch
Grupo Santander , Spain's largest bank, has moved deeper into the Italian market with the purchase of a 2 percent stake in Capitalia , the Italian bank at the center of merger speculation, The Financial Times reported. Santander also reported a 13 percent rise in fourth quarter profits.
Go to Article from The Financial Times via MSNBC
Go to Article from Bloomberg News
Lehman Brothers , Goldman Sachs , and Merrill Lynch were the most efficient traders on Wall Street last year, according to a report from Bernstein Research.
Go to Item from DealBook
Cinemark Holdings , which owns 392 cinemas in the U.S. and Latin America, filed to sell shares in an initial public offering valued at
about 400 million and use the proceeds to pay back debt.
Go to Article from The Los Angeles Times
Can an auction of a new type of security prove that stock options are not worth as much as financial models say they are and therefore allow companies to report higher profits while handing out options to employees and executives?
Go to Article from The New York Times
RPath raised 9.1 million in a second round of venture capital to boost sales and marketing of products to help developers create and maintain software on dedicated appliances.
Go to Article from TheDeal.com
Carlyle Group , the giant private equity firm, has transformed itself in recent years from a company that focused on buying and selling defense companies to one that deals in a broad swath of alternative assets.
BusinessWeek takes a look at how and why the firm's founders undertook this radical overhaul.
Go to Article from BusinessWeek
U.S. private equity fund Blackstone Group is raising 10 billion for one of the biggest ever global property funds, Reuters reported.
Go to Article from Reuters
Six years after buying aerospace components maker CMC Electronics , Canadian private equity firm Onex has sold it to aerospace company Esterline
Technologies for C 391.5 million ( 335 million).
Go to Article from The Deal.com
Lone Star Funds , the United States buyout firm whose sale of Korea Exchange Bank was blocked by a corruption investigation, will collect 445 million in dividends from the bank. Korea Exchange will pay 1,000 won ( 1.10) a share, it said in a regulatory filing to the stock exchange Thursday.
Go to Article from Bloomberg News via The New York Times
A federal judge in Texas has ruled that a widely used aggressive tax shelter was based on fake bank loans and is therefore not legitimate, giving an unexpected boost to federal prosecutors overseeing a widening criminal investigation into tax shelters.
Go to Article from The New York Times
Signaling tougher oversight, Democrats who recently gained control of the Senate urged the head of the Federal Communications Commission on Thursday to take a more aggressive approach to the industries he oversees.
Go to Article from The New York Times
Former Enron prosecutor Kathy Ruemmler has joined the law firm of Latham Watkins in Washington, D.C., confirming speculation that she would follow some of her former colleagues into private practice
and a higher income bracket.
Go to Article from The Houston Chronicle
Go to Previous Item on DealBook
The Securities and Exchange Commission mishandled its inquiry into suspect trades by a prominent hedge fund, then may have tried to cover up those mistakes after its chief investigator on the case complained, according to an interim Senate report released Thursday.
Go to Article from The New York Times
In a highly unusual move, RAB Capital , one of London's leading hedge funds, is demanding "money back guarantees" before it invests in mining companies.
Go to Article from The Telegraph
BP Capital 's T. Boone Pickens, Tudor Investment 's Paul Tudor Jones II and billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn are among the financiers who have contributed to the presidential exploratory committee of former New York City mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, according to PoliticalMoneyLine.com
Go to Item from DealBook
Lehman Brothers bought a 20 percent stake in London hedge fund Spinnaker Capital Group on Wednesday, marking the investment bank's latest move into hedge funds.
Go to Article from The New York Post
Go to Related Item on DealBook
Dealboard
Tool Resources
GET QUOTES
by Name or Symbol:
Look Up Symbol
Join the Discussion
Share your thoughts about today's Dealbook
news in the readers' forum.
Research Suite
Portfolio
Company Research
U.S. Markets
International Markets
Mutual Funds
Send a Tip or Feedback
E mail us at
dealbook nytimes.com
COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
News Features
Property Listings
Sales
Leases
Search by Keyword:
List Your Property
Property E Mail Alerts
Building Photo Guide
Click here to
Receive 50 off
of Home Delivery of The New York Times
Newspaper.
Andrew Ross Sorkin, Peter Edmonston,
Michael de la Merced and Liza Klaussmann.
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy
InternetElect News. Briefly . InternetElectPress InternetElectVideo InternetElect InterElect
Want to start your own business? Learn how on Yahoo! Small Business.
As the 2008 Presidential candidates jockey for position, and the intellectual dishonesty abound. Not forgetting the never ending debate about the War in Iraq and the associated incompetence s; t oday s 41 st SuperBowl in Miami, Fla. featuring two (2) great Football Teams...the Chicago Bears the Indianapolis Colts, offered a welcome national distraction and good ole American fun and sportsmanship (at least to me)
The Colts head coach Tony Dungy and the Bears coach Lovie Smith are a class act a model of class dignity rarely seen at this level of sports. Something that our Leaders should take note and follow suite.
Oh, quarterback Peyton Manning took his Colts team to victory (29 17) Yes, I did indulge myself slightly..a few chicken wings, chips etc J
Europe resists U.S. push to curb Iran ties
January 30, 2007
Europe Resists U.S. Push to Curb Iran Ties
By STEVEN R. WEISMAN
WASHINGTON , Jan. 29 European governments are resisting Bush administration demands that they curtail support for exports to Iran and that they block transactions and freeze assets of some Iranian companies, officials on both sides say. The resistance threatens to open a new rift between Europe and the United States over Iran.
Administration officials say a new American drive to reduce exports to Iran and cut off its financial transactions is intended to further isolate Iran commercially amid the first signs that global pressure has hurt Iran s oil production and its economy. There are also reports of rising political dissent in Iran.
In December, Iran s refusal to give up its nuclear program led the United Nations Security Council to impose economic sanctions. Iran s rebuff is based on its contention that its nuclear program is civilian in nature, while the United States and other countries believe Iran plans to make weapons.
At issue now is how the resolution is to be carried out, with Europeans resisting American appeals for quick action, citing technical and political problems related to the heavy European economic ties to Iran and its oil industry.
We are telling the Europeans that they need to go way beyond what they ve done to maximize pressure on Iran, said a senior administration official. The European response on the economic side has been pretty weak. The American demands and European responses were provided by 10 different officials, including both supporters and critics of the American approach.
One irony of the latest pressure, European and American officials say, is that on their own, many European banks have begun to cut back their transactions with Iran, partly because of a Treasury Department ban on using dollars in deals involving two leading Iranian banks.
American pressure on European governments, as opposed to banks, has been less successful, administration and European officials say.
The main targets are Italy, Germany, France, Spain, Austria, the Netherlands, Sweden and Britain, all with extensive business dealings with Iran, particularly in energy. Administration officials say, however, that Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, the current head of the European Union , has been responsive.
Europe has more commercial and economic ties with Iran than does the United States, which severed relations with Iran after the revolution and seizure of hostages in 1979.
The administration says that European governments provided 18 billion in government loan guarantees for Iran in 2005. The numbers have gone down in the last year, but not by much, American and European officials say.
American officials say that European governments may have facilitated illicit business and that European governments must do more to stop such transactions. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has said the United States has shared with Europeans the names of at least 30 front companies involved in terrorism or weapons programs.
They ve told us they don t have the tools, said a senior American official. Our answer is: get them.
We want to squeeze the Iranians, said a European official. But there are varying degrees of political will in Europe about turning the thumbscrews. It s not straightforward for the European Union to do what the United States wants.
Another European official said: We are going to be very cautious about what the Treasury Department wants us to do. We can see that banks are slowing their business with Iran. But because there are huge European business interests involved, we have to be very careful.
European officials argue that beyond the political and business interests in Europe are legal problems, because European governments lack the tools used by the Treasury Department under various American statutes to freeze assets or block transactions based on secret intelligence information.
A week ago, on Jan. 22, European foreign ministers met in Brussels and adopted a measure that might lead to laws similar to the economic sanctions, laws and presidential directives used in the United States, various officials say. But it is not clear how far those laws will reach once they are adopted.
The American effort to press Iran economically is of a piece with its other forms of pressure on Iran, including the arrest of Iranian operatives in Iraq and sending American naval vessels to the Persian Gulf.
American officials refuse to rule out military action. On Monday, President Bush said in an interview with National Public Radio that the United States would respond firmly if Iran engages in violence in Iraq, but that he did not mean that we re going to invade Iran.
Several European officials said in interviews that they believe that the United States and Saudi Arabia have an unwritten deal to keep oil production up, and prices down, to further squeeze Iran, which is dependent on oil for its economic solvency. No official has confirmed that such a deal exists.
The Bush administration has called on Europe to do more economically as part of a two year old trans Atlantic agreement in which the United States agreed to support European efforts to negotiate a resolution of the crisis over Iran s nuclear program.
Typically, American officials say, European companies that do business with Iran get loans from European banks and then get European government guarantees for the loans on the ground that such transactions are risky in nature.
According to a document used in the discussions between Europe and the United States, which cites the International Union of Credit and Investment Insurers, the largest providers of such credits in Europe in 2005 were Italy, at 6.2 billion; Germany, at 5.4 billion; France, at 1.4 billion; and Spain and Austria, at 1 billion each.
In addition to buying oil from Iran, European countries export machinery, industrial equipment and commodities, which they say have no military application. Europeans also say that courts have overturned past efforts to stop business dealings based on secret information.
At least five Iranian banks have branches in Europe that have engaged in transactions with European banks, American and European officials say.
The five include Bank Saderat, cited last year by the United States as being involved in financing terrorism by Hezbollah and others, and Bank Sepah, cited this month as involved in ballistic missile programs.
A directory of the American Bankers Association lists Bank Sepah as having 10 billion in assets and equity of 1 billion in 2004. It has branches in Frankfurt, Paris, London and Rome. The United States Embassy in Rome has called it the preferred bank of Iran s ballistic missile program, with a record of transactions involving Italian and other banks.
Bank Saderat had assets of 18 billion and equity of 1 billion in 2004, according to the American Bankers directory. Three other Iranian banks Bank Mellat, Bank Melli and Bank Tejarat have not been cited as involved in any illicit activities, but many European officials say they expect the Treasury Department to move against them eventually.
European officials say that the European Commission will meet in mid February and approve a measure paving the way for freezing assets and blocking bank transactions for the 10 Iranian companies and 12 individuals cited in an appendix of Security Council Resolution 1737, adopted in December.
By Herb Brandon
Israel News Agency
Jerusalem February 2 .... A divorced Israel father who has been prevented from seeing his child with equal access is planning to sue the State of Israel, the City of Ra'anana, Ra'anana Mayor Nahum Hofree and his ex wife for criminal and civil damages sustained from emotional abuse, gender bias discrimination and criminal harassment.
"Divorced fathers and their children in Israel have long been the victims of gender bias discrimination," said the dad of a 6 year old. The father, whose name can not be published due to the Israel family law privacy act, stated: "I was evicted from my home, without due process on false charges of sexual harassment by my former wife when we were married, was arrested under false premises and brought to the police by private detectives who identified themselves as police, had my property removed from my home and stolen by private detectives and the state, have watched my child suffer from regression caused by continued conflict created by my ex, and have lost income due to criminal harassment, emotional abuse, depression and negligence caused by my ex and the City of Ra'anana's Child Welfare Department."
Divorced fathers and their children in Israel presently suffer from gender bias discrimination by the Israel Knesset, family courts, the police and local child welfare departments. Blatant discrimination and the forced separation of father from child stems from an outdated law passed by the Israel Knesset in 1962. The Family Custodian Act of 1962 clearly states that all children under the age of six will automatically have custody under their mother, unless the mother is violent, drug abuser or negligent.
Joint custody in Israel is rare. Most couples who divorce in Israel find it difficult to decide on anything together. Without the cooperation of both parents in Israel, their is no joint custody or shared parenting. Israel family courts will only accept joint custody arrangements when both sides agree. The father is cast away by the mother, the justice and child welfare systems in Israel as a second class citizen. The dad turns into a "cash machine" paying child support every month while being denied equal access to their children. As a result, children become alienated from their fathers suffering from Parental Child Alienation Syndrome, crying from the immediate and long term adverse behavioral effects of divorce and separation for years to come.
We question why is it that dads in Israel can carry an M 16 to protect the State of Israel but are not allowed to carry their own children?
A divorced dad seeking to secure equal access to his child
"Loving, caring and responsible dads in Israel will no longer accept the role of victim for themselves and their children," the divorced father stated. "The father's rights movement in Israel has organized itself very well. We question why is it that dads in Israel can carry an M 16 to protect the State of Israel but are not allowed to carry their own children? We have a long list of family and child psychologists who will testify on our behalf, including tons of research material from several respected institutions including the American Psychological Association (APA) which explicitly state that joint custody and or equal access actually reduces conflict between divorced parents and that children critically need equal time by both parents."
The APA states that children in joint custody arrangements had less behavior and emotional problems, had higher self esteem, better family relations and school performance than children in sole custody arrangements.
One of Israel's most respected family attorneys, Naftali Shilo, of the Israel law firm Frimer, Gellman and Shilo had stated that there are many other nightmare stories for which divorced dads in Israel have suffered from.
"There is another divorced dad from central Israel who had his young daughter kidnapped to England in 2001," Shilo said. "We went to the UK and filed abduction charges against the mother and won. The child was then brought back to Israel. In 2002, the mother again filed in family court to take the child away from the father and bring the child to England stating the Israel was a country at war. And again both the English and Israel courts denied her from taking the child away from the father. Reforms in family law are slow in Israel, but at present there is progress with a Knesset Committee now examining a move to abolish the Knesset Custodian Act of 1962 which presumes that the mother is the better parent."
Recently the Jerusalem Post , the New York Times and several other well respected media have addressed and substantiated the emotional suffering and damage sustained by both divorced dads and their children. In the United States, reform in family law is quickly taking hold and a US Presidential candidate, respected psychiatrist Dr. Mark Klein , is campaigning on a platform based on family issues and mandatory joint custody in all divorce cases.
As far back as 1981 many states in the US began adopting reforms in family law. The New York State Assembly and Senate approved a law to require judges to consider joint custody of children in divorce cases if one or both of the parents requests such an arrangement.
There are dozens of fathers' rights groups in the States, including the American Coalition for Fathers and Children , Dads Against Discrimination and the Alliance for Noncustodial Parents Rights . They may not have the name recognition that Fathers 4 Justice has on its own turf, but they work quietly behind the scenes, pushing for custody laws like the ones Iowa and Maine have passed, lobbying Congress and generally doing what they can to improve not just the rights but also the image of divorced fathers.
In this last task, oddly enough, these groups have benefited from federal initiatives designed to motivate divorced or never wed fathers who care all too little about their kids, as publicly financed ad campaigns remind the public how indispensable fathers are. (''Fathers Matter,'' shouted ads on New York City buses last year.) Fathers' groups also benefit from a more general recognition that fathers, at least in some socioeconomic circles, are now much more involved in their children's lives. Some of that involvement is born of necessity, given how many mothers work, but necessity also seems to have effected a cultural shift, ushering in the era of the newly devoted dad.
The traditional custody arrangement, with Mom as sole custodian and Dad demoted to weekend visitor, may have been painful, but practical, in a family with a 50's style division of labor; but to the father who knows every Wiggle by name, the pediatrician's number by heart and how to make a bump free ponytail, such an arrangement could be perceived as an outrage, regardless of what might be more convenient or who is the primary caretaker.
The divorced Israel dad who is now planning to sue the State of Israel, the City of Ra'anana and his ex wife for 10 million dollars says: "We are going to hit them where it hurts in the pocketbook. We are going to remove from office insensitive, callous public officials who ignore a child's basic human rights. For once, the Israel Ministry of Health, Israel Ministry of Justice, the mayors and the child welfare departments of Ra'anana and other Israel cities and towns will know that loving, responsible and caring divorced dads are not just banks for narcissistic and destructive mothers. Reforms in family law are coming to Israel and hopefully also less tears and a healthier future for our children."
Iranian general supervised Hamas arms, source says
Following seizure of Iranian agents in Gaza, Palestinian source tells Ynet most senior agent, a general, was in charge of several labs in Islamic University, trained activists manufacturing explosives
Ali Waked
A Palestinian source has said that the Iranian general nabbed in Gaza by Palestinian security officers supervised the manufacturing weapons and explosives for Hamas.
The source told Ynet on Friday that the expert was in charge of several labs in the university, mainly chemistry labs in which he trained Hamas activists, most of them women, manufacturing the explosives.
Arrest
Iranian agents nabbed in Gaza, 1 commits suicide Ali Waked and AP
Palestinian security forces arrest at least five Iranians at Hamas linked university in Strip, say men sent by Iran to train Islamic group. Hamas commander believed to have orchestrated kidnapping of Israeli soldier Shalit injured in raid, report says
Full story
At least five Iranian citizens were arrested during a raid at the Islamic University, a Hamas stronghold in Gaza City. One of the Iranians committed suicide during the raid. Six to nine Palestinians were killed in the raid, sources said.
The raid on the Hamas linked university in Gaza was carried out by national security forces affiliated with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. Hundreds of weapons and a lathe for the production of Qassam rockets were seized in the raid.
A security official said that during the raid a Hamas commander believed to have orchestrated the kidnapping of an Israeli soldier near the Gaza Strip in June last year suffered serious to moderate wounds.
Ahmad Jaabri is believed to have planned the cross border raid carried out by gunmen of Hamas and two other Palestinian groups on June 12 during which Corp. Gilad Shalit was kidnapped.
Gaza university following raid (Photo: AFP)
The Palestinian source added that at least 20 women, some of them students, were arrested in the labs supervised by the Iranian expert, who was mainly involved in developing shells and rockets, but also explosives.
The source said that it was so far not clear what would happen to the general, who was still being questioned by Fatah members.
Official diplomatic sources in the Palestinian Authority, including aides to Abbas and senior Fatah officials, refused to officially comment on the affair. Hamas officials also continued to strongly deny the report on the Iranians' arrest.
The security forces also took control of Hamas controlled government offices.
Hundred of security officers stormed the university, eyewitnesses said, and set fire to one of its building.
Hamas gunmen fired a rocket at the Gaza City office of Abbas, who was in Ramallah at the time.
Earlier Thursday, Hamas gunmen ambushed a Presidential Guards convoy, seizing weapons and explosives transferred by the United States and Arab countries to Abbas. Fatah denied the claim, saying that two boxes seized by Hamas contained medicines.
The raid came at the end of a day of clashes that collapsed a three day truce between the warring factions. Iran has supplied Hamas with funds, but there have been no previous claims of Iranians working with Hamas in Gaza.
AP contributed to the report
This will come as a surprise to anyone who knows me. I want Rudy Giuliani to be the next Republican Presidential Nominee. Mainly because I think his foreign policy would be the best, most stable stance for the U.S. Even though I hate his position on abortion, gun control, and all the other socially conservative stuff I believe in. I just think he will keep our country safer than any other Republican candidate. That's not even mentioning the pansy chickens running for the Democrat Nomination.
So, Rudy is the man. Unless a viable social conservative comes along. And no, Mitt Romney aint it.
Ahmadinejad led 1979 terror siege of US Embassy in Teheran, ex captives say
By israelinsider staff February 4, 2007
Bookmark to del.icio.us Digg This Story Digg This Story
Russian newspaper published photo, left, bearing striking resemblance to Iranian president.
When a group of radical Islamist students stormed the US embassy in Tehran on November 4, 1979, few would have guessed that one member of the group of hostage takers would go on to be president of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
However, a new book reveals that Iran's hardline president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, not only participated in the operation to take hostage 63 American diplomats and three other American citizens, but that he may have also had a hand in planning the event dubbed 'the Second Revolution' by Iran's then Supreme Leader, the Ayatollah Khomeini.
Veteran journalist and author Mark Bowden reports in his book "Guests of the Ayatollah: The First Battle in America's War With Militant Islam," that the radical president was key in communicating between the hostage takers and higher ups of the Iranian Islamic revolution.
"According to then Iranian President Abolhassan Bani Sadr," Bowden writes, "Ahmadinejad was not only present in the occupied compound, but served as liaison between the hostage takers and Ali Khamenei, at the time one of the most important Friday preachers in Tehran."
Khamenei, who reportedly visited the besieged compound often during the 444 day crisis, is now Iran's top religious leader and political decision maker whose approval is required for the implementation of any policy or the appointment of any political officer, including president.
A number of high ranking US officials, diplomats, and intelligence officers who were amongst the hostages have identified Ahjmadinejad as a particularly cruel member of the group of hostage takers.
In an interview with the Washington Times, Army Colonel Charles Scott, who was held in the embassy as a hostage, said that " Ahmadinejad was one of the top two or three leaders; the new president of Iran is a terrorist."
Despite Ahmadinejad's denials that he partook in the plot, a number of the hostages, including both military officers and non military employees of the embassy, confirmed Colonel Scott's claim.
The length and success of the Iranian student hostage crisis is widely believed to have contributed to the solidification of the theocratic regime's power hold on Iran.
In addition to the successful siege, many hardline and radical Iranians were bolstered by then President Jimmy Carter's soft position on the Iranian revolutionaries.
Carter, who refused to take significant military action against the hostile regime, lost the US presidential election only months after the hostage crisis began.
Although a number female and black hostages were released shortly after the crisis began, it was only minutes after Ronald Reagan was sworn in as president that the remainder of the hostages were released.
Monday, February 5, 2007
Compiled 2 AM E.T. In This E Mail:
World U.S. Washington Business Technology
Sports Arts New York Region Media Advertising Editorials Op Ed
Customize Today's Headlines Search
TOP STORIES
Advertisement
Iraqis Fault Pace of U.S. Plan in Attack
By DAMIEN CAVE and
RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.
A growing number of Iraqis blamed the United States for creating conditions that led to the single worst suicide bombing in the war.
U.S. Set to Begin a Vast Expansion of DNA Sampling
By JULIA PRESTON
New rules will allow the collection of DNA from most people arrested or detained by federal authorities.
Familiar Face, but a New Tone
By JOHN M. BRODER
John Edwards is trying to get an advantage among Democrats in the 08 race by staking out provocative positions on the big issues.
NYTimes.com Homepage
Back to Top
QUOTATION OF THE DAY
"You can put a cop on every corner, and you will not stop the murders. As long as you have a large population that is uneducated and has no job and no hope, what else is there to do but sell drugs?"
ERIC E. MALVEAU, on New Orleans, the nation s per capita murder leader.
SPORTS
The Super Bowl: Colts 29, Bears 17
Complete coverage includes photos and reader discussion , columns by Dave Anderson and Selena Roberts , as well as assessments of the ads and the halftime show . Sidebar: Geography and the Machinery of Death
The question of whether a convicted murderer lives or dies may turn on where the killing took place and who owned the land, writes Adam Liptak.
WORLD
Hindered by Delays and Corruption, the Iraqi Air Force Is Flying Again, but Barely
By JAMES GLANZ
The United States severely underestimated what it will take to rebuild Iraq s air force.
Internet Boom in China Is Built on Virtual Fun
By DAVID BARBOZA
Instant messaging and game playing are major obsessions, now central to Chinese culture.
American Takes Over Command of NATO Force in Afghanistan
By CARLOTTA GALL
The force is still struggling to contain the Taliban, which mounted a strong comeback last year.
More World News
Back to Top
U.S.
In New Orleans, Dysfunction Fuels Cycle of Killing
By ADAM NOSSITER and CHRISTOPHER DREW
Hurricane Katrina loosened the fragile social restraints in New Orleans, making the city perhaps more dangerous.
After the Destruction, Seeking a Time to Heal
By LYNN WADDELL
A lyrical sermon resonated with those affected by the tornadoes that took 13 lives in the Paisley area of Central Florida.
Yellowstone Proposal Sets Greater Snowmobile Access
By JIM ROBBINS
The plan would
allow as many as 720 snowmobiles to enter the park each day, nearly three times as many as permitted in the last several years.
More U.S. News
Back to Top
WASHINGTON
nytimes.com tech
David Pogue's advice for Microsoft's PR team
Also in Technology:
How secure is your Wi Fi connection? A new way to watch movies from Netflix Subscribe to David Pogue's videos for free!
Democrats Seek Unpaid Taxes, Setting Up Clash
By EDMUND L. ANDREWS
Congressional Democrats and the Treasury Department disagree over how much unpaid taxes could be collected.
Rebellion Growing as States Challenge a Federal Law to Standardize Driver s Licenses
By ERIC LIPTON
Opposition among state officials is turning into an open revolt against a federal law calling for the creation of standardized driver s licenses.
McCain Calls New Advisers Good People
By THE NEW YORK TIMES
Senator John McCain said that several aides brought on to his presidential campaign were good people, despite his own past criticisms of their work for other candidates.
More Washington News
Back to Top
BUSINESS
ADVERTISING
Super Bowl Ads of Cartoonish Violence, Perhaps Reflecting Toll of War
By STUART ELLIOTT
The war in Iraq seemed to linger
just below the surface of many of this year s Super Bowl commercials.
Internet Boom in China Is Built on Virtual Fun
By DAVID BARBOZA
Instant messaging and game playing are major obsessions, now central to Chinese culture.
Meeting of NBC Board May Mean Change at Top
By BILL CARTER
Jeff Zucker is expected to be named chairman and chief executive of NBC Universal, succeeding Bob Wright.
More Business News
Back to Top
TECHNOLOGY
Internet Boom in China Is Built on Virtual Fun
By DAVID BARBOZA
Instant messaging and game playing are major obsessions, now central to Chinese culture.
A Long Delayed Ad System Has Yahoo Crossing Its Fingers
By MIGUEL HELFT
Project Panama is Yahoo s effort to close the wide gap with Google in the race for search advertising dollars.
Study Finds Security Flaws on Web Sites of Major Banks
By BRAD STONE
A
new study suggests that image identification security systems provide little additional protection.
More Technology News
Back to Top
SPORTS
SUPER BOWL XLI: COLTS 29, BEARS 17
Late Interceptions Seal Sloppy Win Against the Bears
By CLIFTON BROWN
Peyton Manning no longer has to worry about a career without a Super Bowl title after the Colts defeated the Bears, 29 17.
Two Coaches, Two Friends, but Only One Prize
By JOHN BRANCH
Coaches Tony Dungy and Lovie Smith are linked by football and friendship, faith and success. But only Dungy will hold that Super Bowl championship both men sought.
Manning Claims Elusive Ring While Urlacher Is Forced to Wait for His
By KAREN CROUSE
Being the best player at his position never to win a Super Bowl is a double edged distinction that Brian Urlacher, the quarterback of the Bears defense, will have to live with for at least another season.
More Sports News
Back to Top
ARTS
THEATER REVIEW 'WAKE UP MR. SLEEPY! YOUR UNCONSCIOUS MIND IS DEAD!'
Throw a Bucket of Ice Water on Your Brain
By BEN BRANTLEY
Richard Foreman has thoughtfully whipped up a dazzling exercise in reality shifting that is as invigorating as it is mournful.
THEATER REVIEW 'THE MERCHANT OF VENICE,' 'THE JEW OF MALTA'
O, Villain, Villain, Loosed in Elizabethan Minds
By CHARLES ISHERWOOD
Welcome to the Theater for a New Audience s smackdown between two of the most notorious villains of the Elizabethan stage, both starring F. Murray Abraham.
TV
REVIEW 'RULES OF ENGAGEMENT'
The Sitcom Question: Tie the Knot or Not?
By ALESSANDRA STANLEY
The Rules of Engagement is not a groundbreaking new series by any means, but it has some redeeming virtues.
More Arts News
Back to Top
NEW YORK REGION
Spitzer Seeks Commission to Study Prison Closings
By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE
The effort would try to duplicate the recent commission that recommended shutting down at least 20 hospitals across New York.
Numbers Show How Police Work Varies by Precinct
By EMILY VASQUEZ
The number of times the police stopped people on the streets of New York last year varied greatly depending on the neighborhood, according to new data.
Haitian Candidate Seeks to Add His Voice
By JONATHAN P. HICKS
There are at least 100,000 Haitian Americans in New York, but none have been elected to the City Council or State Legislature.
More New York Region News
Back to Top
MEDIA ADVERTISING
ADVERTISING
Super Bowl Ads of Cartoonish Violence, Perhaps Reflecting Toll of War
By STUART ELLIOTT
The war in Iraq seemed to linger just below the surface of many of this year s Super Bowl commercials.
Meeting of NBC Board May Mean Change at Top
By BILL CARTER
Jeff Zucker is expected to be named chairman and chief executive of NBC Universal, succeeding Bob Wright.
The Director Lines Up a Shot
By LAURA M. HOLSON
A year after DreamWorks was sold to Paramount, Steven Spielberg is fighting to retain control of his company s independence.
More Media Advertising News
Back to
Top
EDITORIALS
A Bleak Assessment on Iraq
There isn t much encouraging news in the new National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq.
Good Election News From Florida
Florida, famous for doing so much wrong in its elections, is poised to take two very important right steps.
Moving Toward Greater Drug Safety
The Food and Drug Administration is making encouraging moves to strengthen its regulation of drugs. But the changes fall far short of what s needed.
EDITORIAL OBSERVER
On Race and the Census: Struggling With Categories That No Longer Apply
By BRENT STAPLES
There seems to be an emerging consensus that the system of racial classification that has dominated national politics and the census for nearly two centuries
should be dropped altogether.
More Editorials
Back to Top
OP ED
OP ED COLUMNIST
The Green Zoning of America
By PAUL KRUGMAN
Under the guise of promoting a conservative agenda, the Bush administration has created a supersized version of the
19th century spoils system.
OP ED COLUMNIST
Gary Tyler s Lost Decades
By BOB HERBERT
The life of Gary Tyler, a black person convicted of killing a white, was destroyed by a racist system.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
Seeing What We Want to See in Qaddafi
By HISHAM MATAR
Now that the United States has incorporated the Libyan regime into its so called war on terrorism, it is difficult to see what political pressure it can exert on the Libyan government to reform.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
12 Rms, 8 Bths, 38 Wind Turbines
By RICK MORANIS
I m just so incredibly excited about the idea of having our whole co op reduce its carbon footprint.
Go to Editorials Op Ed
Back to Top
ON THIS DAY
On Feb. 5, 1937, President Roosevelt proposed increasing the number of Supreme Court justices; critics charged Roosevelt was attempting to "pack" the court. See this front page
Buy this front
page
Back to Top
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy
InternetElect News. Briefly . InternetElectPress InternetElectVideo InternetElect InterElect
Any questions? Get answers on any topic at Yahoo! Answers . Try it now.
Go RED the month of February in Support of American Heart Month and join the landmark heart health awareness movement that is being embraced by millions who share the common goal of greater awareness and better heart health for all women.
Campaign Materials Wear Red
Even though this pic wasn't taken this February 2, 2007 for National Heart Health Awareness, I still wear red and a good bit of it, too. When the pictures below were taken, I was more worried about beating the odds of cancer than heart disease.
I have purchased a red dress pin and will wear it every day of this month of February 2007 in support of this cause.
Whether you think you look good in red or feel that red is too bold a color for you...Wear it in support of National Heart Health Month for Women.
Heart Healthy Recipes
One of my favorite recipes. Yummm, Hummus!
Hummus Olive Spread
Prep: 10 minutes
Makes 10 servings (2 tablespoons spread and 4 pita wedges each)
Ingredients:
1 container (7 oz.) plain hummus, or Hummus (below)
cup pitted Kalamata and or Spanish olives, chopped, or 1 can (4 oz.) chopped ripe olives, drained
1 tablespoon Greek vinaigrette or zesty fat free Italian dressing
7 pita breads (6 inches in diameter), each cut into 6 wedges
Directions:
1. Spread hummus on 8 to 10 inch serving plate.
2. Mix olives and vinaigrette in small bowl. Spoon over hummus.
3. Serve with pita bread wedges.
Hummus
can (15 to 16 oz.) garbanzo beans, drained and 2 tablespoons liquid reserved
2 tablespoons lemon juice
cup sesame seed
1 small garlic clove, crushed
teaspoon salt
Place all ingredients including reserved bean liquid in blender or food processor. Cover and blend on high speed, stopping blender occasionally to scrape sides if necessary, until uniform consistency.
Nutritional Information:
1 serving:
Calories 154 (Calories from Fat 28); Fat 4g; Saturated Fat 0g (1 of calories from Saturated Fat); Trans Fat 0g; Cholesterol 0mg; Omega 3 0g; Sodium 340mg; Carbohydrate 25g (Dietary Fiber 2g); Protein 6g
Daily Value:
Vitamin A 0 ; Vitamin C 0 ; Calcium 4 ; Iron 8 ; Folic Acid 14
Help to Influence Public Policies on Heart Health Education More
Vote Early and Vote Often. Health Care issues in America should be at the forefront of this coming presidential election.
Visit My eBay Store: A Suthrnjewl's Emporium
Suthrnjewl 1998
Miss Priss Suthrnjewl
Technorati tags: Suthrnjewl , Wear Red , National Heart Health Awareness , Womens Health Issues , Womens Heart Health , Heart Healthy Recipes , Hummus Olives Recipe , Influence Public Policies by Voting
I have been considering what direction I want to take Fear and Trembling . I get a good amount of traffic and readership already, but I believe that I can take that to a new level. The first thing that I need to do is familiarize myself with some of my other hosting options. MSN Spaces has been a good start, but it is entirely too much like MySpace for MyTaste and I would like to have more control over the visuals of the site. I would also like to be on a site that might garner more interaction and comments from outsiders.
My post from last week about Mike Huckabee marks the beginning of the Presidential election campaigns and I would like Fear and Trembling to be part of the campaign "blog o sphere" In addition to coverage of the campaign I want to be able to provide some podcasting of sermons and bible studies, more links to related blogs (or even unrelated as in the case of my friend Kevin the Atheist , which by the way, I think is his Warcraft name) and even some interviews of local people that I find interesting. I think that I have a secret desire to be the next Charlie Rose.
I also know that I promised some poetry last month and I have been writing poetry for my class, but I have found that the poetry I have written was so intensely personal that I hesitate to put it on the Internet. As a spend some more time with particular poems, I might reconsider. I certainly underestimated the wrenching that might come about from writing personal poetry. It can be difficult to express certain thoughts that have lived on the periphery of ones mind. I have not written any poetry from recent events, instead they are all happenings of more than 12 years ago that have had time to go from being memories to objective events that seemed to have happened to another person.
In the recent light of the Presidential politics starting a wave of conversation on Universal Health Care, I thought I would take an opportunity to share what an unwise idea that would be. Other than my own experiences within the nightmare of a system I found in Britain, I refer to a talk by Neal A Maxwell given to the Rotary in 1978. It pretty well sums up the issue.
Neal A. Maxwell, The Prohibitive Costs of a Value free Society, Ensign , Oct 1978, 52 55
An address given to Salt Lake City Rotarians, 7 February 1978
One of Rotary s criteria reads, Is it the truth? Note that this very question assumes the existence of a standard by which truth can be tested. Another Rotary standard Is it fair? assumes a standard of justice by which certain things can be measured. Not a standard, of course, like metric measurement or yards and feet, but a spiritual standard that is constant even though it may often be applied imperfectly by imperfect people.
Such values involve more than rhetoric. When men and women protest an injustice, they often fail to see either the assumptions or the implications in their protest. C. S. Lewis once wrote to a protesting near believer as follows:
You say the materialist universe is ugly. I wonder how you discovered that! If you are really a product of a materialistic universe, how is it you don t feel at home there? Do fish complain of the sea for being wet? (From Sheldon Vanauken, A Severe Mercy, Harper and Row, 1977, p. 93.)
The Rotary motto of Service above Self assumes the presence of certain instinctive values attesting that man is more than an animal. It would be ludicrous to have such a standard if it were, in fact, out of our reach. Indeed, our very reaching and stretching tell us much about who we are. Also in your literature is a statement stating how, at one point in the early history of Rotary, it became clear that camaraderie alone could not sustain the organization; soon service to the community became your binding strength. You had rediscovered an old truth about human nature: It was said by the Scottish minister, George MacDonald, that love of one s neighbor is the only door out of the dungeon of self. ( George MacDonald Anthology, by C. S. Lewis, pub. by Geoffrey Bles, 1970, p. 39.)
I come to you today as one who accepts with most, if not all, of you the existence of certain absolute truths in the universe from which there has been a severe slipping away on the part of many. The slippage has occurred, I fear, without awareness on the part of many as to what happens when we move to a spiritually standardless society. Beliefs or the lack of them do affect behavior.
Lest any here be anxious about whether I will take a theological turn in my remarks today, let me simply say that many of the standards and values in the great religions of the world are held far more in common than some realize. Besides, we cannot fail to notice that we are at one of those hingepoints of history when, as Hermann Hesse said, a whole generation is caught between two ages, between two modes of life, and thus loses the feeling for itself, for the self evident, for all morals, for being safe and innocent. (Duncan Williams, Trousered Apes, Arlington House, 1971, p. 59.)
For today s purposes, what I mean by self evident morals and basic values are fundamental truths such as the Ten Commandments, which are so much a part of our Judeo Christian heritage. These values resist rationalization and redefinition, and any amendments to the Ten Commandments would come from the same Source as did those original commandments. We are, of course, free to obey or not to obey those commandments. We are not free to try to amend them to read, for instance, Thou shalt not commit adultery except between consenting adults. We may, by legislation and regulation, vainly try to create a zone of private morality. But there is, ultimately, no such thing as private morality; there is not an indoor and an outdoor set of Ten Commandments. Neither is it useful to cite human shortfalls as an excuse to abandon all absolutes, because striving and falling short of accepted standards is very different from having no standards at all.
There is an ecology that pertains to human nature just as there is an interrelatedness pertaining to nature. This spiritual ecology embodies certain laws which, if violated, will produce certain consequences. These laws, though less acknowledged, are as irrevocable and active as the laws of nature. They do not cease to operate simply because we do not recognize them, any more than one is protected from the consequences of eating a poisonous toadstool just because he believes it to be a mushroom.
We had better want the consequences of what we believe or disbelieve, because the consequences will come!
The high costs, indeed the prohibitive costs, of living in a standardless society are also incurred in so many secondary ways. For instance, a society which is uncertain of its basic values will engage in endless and expensive experimentation of both a governmental and a personal variety. The Frenchman, La Rochefoucauld, could have been describing so many of our modern experiments when he said, There goes another beautiful theory about to be murdered by a brutal gang of facts.
Few such recent experiments in America have been more costly and counterproductive than some in our schools. Pupil test scores are declining, and the costs of education are increasing. The move to relevancy has produced a curriculum, some of which is irrelevant to such basic skills as reading and writing. Pass fail courses and the inflating of grades are milder symptoms. Taxpayers are often paying at least twice to teach some pupils how to read, and in many cases, it is still not happening! Our schools and colleges must respond to genuine needs for changes, but there are times when to be fashionable is to fail one s foremost constituents.
These things are not said simply to scold the schools, as if the failures were located there and there alone. Nonfunctioning families bear much of the blame. The fact is that basic values are interactive and so are the basic institutions which have rested upon these bedrock values. Alter the basic beliefs and you alter the chemistry of society.
In education or elsewhere it is difficult to say which came first the reluctance to measure or the reluctance to be measured. But in the end the results are the same. In this connection, some have been too slow to see the implications in the conclusion which is reached by many, If there is no divine reward or punishment related to my personal performance, why should there be any mortal concern with merit? The assumptions underlying such a conclusion are in gross error, but the logic is relentless!
Functional illiteracy in America is high in certain age groups. This is in addition to a more massive economic illiteracy about how our system works, which is an even more ominous failure. Even though our governments are bigger and more powerful than ever, many in the rising generation know less and less about how we are governed.
Value free experimentation is extremely costly both in terms of money and of souls, and it creates what has been called the worst slum of all the slum of the human spirit, for many students and citizens are starved for earned self esteem. A standardless society will also find itself deaf to the costly lessons of history. Winston Churchill chose as a stern warning motto for his concluding volume of the history of World War II these words: How the Great Democracies Triumphed, and so Were able to Resume the Follies Which Had so Nearly Cost Them Their Life. ( Triumph and Tragedy, Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1953.) A value free society focuses upon things like me and now it has little sense of history out of which to fashion the future. If nothing lies ahead of men, how vital is memory? A healthy regard for the past is usually accompanied by a healthy regard for the future; and a lack of one usually means the lack of the other.
But how can a society set priorities if there are no basic standards? Are we to make our calculations using only the arithmetic of appetite?
A society not based upon key values like loving our neighbor will inevitably subsidize selfishness and will place a premium upon an apostate form of individualism at the expense of community. Bear in mind, for instance, that if we do not see ourselves as more than temporary, biological brothers, our behavior changes. When we repudiate our traditional relationships with God and man, it is so much easier to repudiate not only debt but to repudiate relatives. If one really has no relatives, to whom do such people belong? Why, to that collective catch all, society, of course! But as we generalize responsibility for relatives we particularize loneliness and misery.
Yet if self interest is the final determinant, why should we be inconvenienced by the needs of others?
We have been used to speaking of our political system (as envisioned by the founding fathers) as one in which opinions collide constitutionally, wherein vested interests cancel each other out, or tame each other before a safe majority is formed, or, at least, in which vested interests are brought out into the light by the democratic process. Indeed, this system has served us well. Winners and losers have played out the drama almost always within constitutional constraints, as turns have been taken at the levers of power by different majorities. What was not allowed for fully, however, nor could it be, is what happened when government, instead of remaining a referee, first became a participant and then became a possibly permanent majority itself.
It remains to be seen whether or not our nation can tame big government. There is, frankly, no precedent for dismantling, even partially, a welfare state, especially in a peaceful and constitutional way. Such a Goliath will not go quietly to surgery.
One analyst of political things has observed that in addition to the happy consequences of democracy, the system tends to produce two unwanted side effects bureaucracy and apathy. These are not inevitable side effects, but they are probable side effects. We are experiencing these symptoms in America. Yet, alas, Thomas Jefferson said our republic s future rested on the assumption that our citizens would remain attentive and informed.
The shift in values has produced another shift in political point of view. George F. Will, the perceptive Pulitzer Prize winning columnist, noted just one example in the difference between the old liberalism and a new liberalism:
The old liberalism delivered material advantages that were intended to enable people to live the lives they had chosen. The new liberalism, typified by forced busing and affirmative action and the explosive growth of regulation, administers remedies to what society s supervisors consider defects in the way people live. (Newsweek, 23 Jan. 1978, p. 88; italics added.)
Decrease the belief in God, and you increase the numbers of those who wish to play at being God by being society s supervisors. Such supervisors deny the existence of divine standards, but are very serious about imposing their own standards on society.
It is no accident that the lessening, or loss, of belief in certain absolute truths, such as the existence of God and the reality of immortality, has occurred at the same time there has been a sharp gain in the size and power of governments in many portions of the world.
Once we remove belief in God from the center of our lives, as the Source of truth and as a Determiner of justice, a tremendous vacuum is created into which selfishness surges, a condition which governments delight in managing. Trends become a theology. A religion of regulations emerges in which tens of thousands of regulations seek to replace the Ten Commandments.
And with this secular religion comes a frightening insistence on orthodoxy, enforced by the withdrawal and bestowal of benefits. Such governments inevitably tend to enlarge taxes and to stunt their citizens. John Stuart Mill observed:
A State which dwarfs its men, in order that they may be more docile instruments in its hands even for beneficial purposes will find that with small men no great thing can really be accomplished; and that the perfection of machinery to which it has sacrificed everything will in the end avail it nothing, for want of the vital power which, in order that the machine might work more smoothly, it has preferred to banish. ( On Liberty, Great Books of the Western World, v. 43, p. 323.)
This dwarfing of the individual is one of the prohibitive costs of a value free society! The state will never wither away in a spiritually standardless society. It will simply swell and become more strong, more ominous, and more serious. Maxwell Anderson had a line in one of his plays in which a discouraged character asks plaintively why governments can t be small and funny any more.
Dietrich Bonhoeffer was a martyr in 1945 to a big and serious state, grown impatient with Bonhoeffer s allegiance to God instead of to the Fuhrer. Of Bonhoeffer s beliefs, G. Leibholz wrote: If Christian teaching does not guide us in the use of freedom and God is denied, all obligations and responsibilities that are sacred and binding on man are undermined. ( The Cost of Discipleship. )
The costs of dictatorships are devastating. Even the garden variety versions of totalitarianism are expensive. When God is denied all sacred obligations and responsibilities are undermined.
Can we really afford a society in which we do not believe in the principle of work? Inflation has several causes, but any lasting cure must include increased productivity. Besides, work is a spiritual necessity, even if it is not an economic necessity, which it is.
Can we really afford a society in which the family, our most basic institution, is further diminished? Most of us revolt at the idea of having children raised by the state, but step by small step we are moving in that direction. If our society s success depends on having a critical mass of citizens with a sense of fair play and justice, and with love and concern for others, where do citizens usually acquire those crucial virtues, if we acquire them at all? We usually acquire them first and best in the family. The family garden, as has been said, is still the best place to grow happy humans. Society already pays terrible costs for the products of tragically flawed families, but if our nation further undermines the average family, the costs will be catastrophic.
What we do with the family is going to determine what happens to our whole society. The wise Catholic writer, G. K. Chesterton, observed years ago that only men to whom the family is sacred will ever have a standard by which to criticize the State, because they alone can appeal to something more holy than the gods of the city. ( Everlasting Man, Image Books, 1955, p. 143.)
The basic strands which have bound us together socially have begun to fray, and some of them have snapped. Even more pressure is then placed upon the remaining strands. The fact that the giving way is gradual will not prevent it from becoming total. For instance, schools which fail put even more pressure upon the institution of the family, and vice versa. A lowering of standards or discipline in the one means great difficulty in the maintenance of standards and discipline in the other.
Given the tremendous asset that the family is, we must do all we can within constitutional constraints to protect it from predatory things like homosexuality and pornography. Of pornography Ronald Butt wrote in the London Times:
The history of the Roman arena instructs in how the appetite of a people can be created by what is fed to it the upper classes of Rome were systematically addicted by their ruler to the frenzy and titillation of sadistic violence by a steady progression from less to more until the Roman character itself was conditioned to a coarse insensibility to suffering. (Feb. 1976.)
We need to reflect on how many of our sad trends represent a steady progression from less to more.
If the family is not basic, however, and is not something of immense value, why worry about wrecking it?
Our whole republic rests upon the notion of obedience to the unenforceable, upon a tremendous emphasis on inner controls through self discipline. The historians Will and Ariel Durant observed that if liberty destroys order, the hunger for order will destroy liberty. But keeping liberty and order in tension balance requires tremendous self discipline in the citizenry of a nation.
Can we really afford the ultimate costs of governments which, in lieu of self discipline, impose more and more outer controls?
But if liberty is not basic, why worry over such trends?
If we are immortal, however, we are immensely more important than a government which may only last a moment in the expanse of eternity.
But if there were no God and we were merely transients, then what would be wrong with governments pushing us around? Indeed, what would be really wrong about anything at all?
Our value crisis gathered some of its momentum because at first it produced an artificial sense of new freedom. Morris West warned:
Without the Faith, one is free, and that is a pleasant feeling at first. There are no questions of conscience, no constraints. It is only later that the terror comes. One is free but free in chaos, in an unexplained and unexplainable world. One is free in a desert, from which there is no retreat but inward, toward the hollow core of oneself. ( The Devil s Advocate, New York: William Morrow Co., 1959.)
Secularism also produced an artificial sense of security. A good example of this is what has happened to our Social Security system in America. Principles gave way to political promises, and the secular theology with its cast your care upon Social Security has now exposed its hollowness like the billboard outside Chicago ten years ago that read, Borrow enough from us to get completely out of debt. Sad as it is to say it, the hard choices ahead for the nation regarding our Social Security system could pit the young against the old and the middle class against the poor. The system is scarcely social in such a setting; likewise, the financial unsoundness of the system scarcely deserves the word Security. What we have is thus neither social nor security. Ahead of us are additional days of reckoning besides the one noted many times in the Bible.
But those who do not believe in ultimate personal accountability are not as likely to be concerned with the forms of proximate accountability for each of us. Those who lack self restraint will see little need, for example, for governments to discipline public spending.
We must not dismiss too quickly the importance of believing in the reality of immortality. A friend, Dick Hazelett, wrote perceptively about what happens when life is continually dampened by the thought of its own continuous annihilation. Then only fleeting pleasures remain, unconnected in time. When pleasures become disconnected, the intense ones stand out like branches stripped of leaves. Raw experience as such becomes the goal. Work becomes drudgery, nature becomes boring, children are nuisances (which they then become), sympathy and affection are perceived as sticky, chastity is no longer worth the sacrifice, and freedom isn t worth a fight.
Different beliefs do make for different behaviors; what we think does affect our actions; concepts do have consequences. As Christopher Booker said:
When men cease to aspire to the ideal, the good, to self restraint whether in their hearts or in their lives they do not just stand still, but actually turn the other way, finding self fulfillment in self indulgence, and in those three ultimate expressions of the totally self centered life: sex, violence, and insanity. ( Trousered Apes, pp. 14 15.)
We must bear in mind that while there are obvious differences as to what all the basic truths and values are, having such tactical differences is very unlike the sad conclusion that there are no such basic truths at all. When these basic divine truths do not play a significant role in our lives, it creates much ambivalence over issues such as the relationship of personal property and political majorities. Few things are more frightening to see than envy when it is politicized.
If we are not committed to certain truths, ambiguity will replace absolutes, tentativeness will replace truth, regulations measured by the pound instead of by principles will replace liberty, a tenured bureacracy will replace democracy, and hesitancy will replace heroism.
Once society loses its capacity to declare that some things are wrong per se, then it finds itself forever building temporary defenses, revising rationales, drawing new lines but forever falling back and losing its nerve. A society which permits anything will eventually lose everything!
Take away a consciousness of eternity and see how differently time is spent.
Take away an acknowledgement of divine design in the structure of life and then watch the mindless scurrying to redesign human systems to make life pain free and pleasure filled.
Take away regard for the divinity in one s neighbor, and watch the drop in our regard for his property.
Take away basic moral standards and observe how quickly tolerance changes into permissiveness.
Take away the sacred sense of belonging to a family or community, and observe how quickly citizens cease to care for big cities.
Those of us who are business oriented are quick to look for the bottom line in our endeavors. In the case of a value free society, the bottom line is clear the costs are prohibitive!
A value free society eventually imprisons its inhabitants. It also ends up doing indirectly what most of its inhabitants would never have agreed to do directly at least initially.
Can we turn such trends around? There is still a wealth of wisdom in the people of this good land, even though such wisdom is often mute and in search of leadership. People can often feel in their bones the wrongness of things, long before pollsters pick up such attitudes or before such attitudes are expressed in the ballot box. But it will take leadership and articulate assertion of basic values in all places and in personal behavior to back up such assertions.
Even then, time and the tides are against us, so that courage will be a key ingredient. It will take the same kind of spunk the Spartans displayed at Thermopylae when they tenaciously held a small mountain pass against overwhelming numbers of Persians. The Persians could not dislodge the Spartans and sent emissaries forward to threaten what would happen if the Spartans did not surrender. The Spartans were told that if they did not give up, the Persians had so many archers in their army that they would darken the skies with their arrows. The Spartans said simply: So much the better, we will fight in the shade!
Wednesday, February 7, 2007
Compiled 2 AM E.T. In This E Mail:
World U.S. Washington Business Technology
Sports Arts New York Region Dining Wine Editorials Op Ed
Customize Today's Headlines Search
TOP STORIES
Advertisement
Military Wants More Civilians to Help in Iraq
By THOM SHANKER and DAVID S. CLOUD
The complaints reflect fresh tensions between the Pentagon and the State Department over personnel demands that have fallen most heavily on the military.
NEWS ANALYSIS
Many Voices, No Debate, as Senate Is Stifled on War
By CARL HULSE
The Senate has tied itself up in procedural knots rather than engage in a debate on Iraq policy.
From Spaceflight to Attempted Murder Charge
By JOHN SCHWARTZ
A NASA astronaut, Capt. Lisa Marie Nowak, has been charged with the attempted murder of a rival for the affections of a fellow astronaut.
NYTimes.com Homepage
Back to Top
QUOTATION OF THE DAY
"We can screen out very serious stuff, but we can t always predict the future."
NICK KANAS, professor of psychology at the University of California, San Francisco, on psychological testing of astronauts.
BUSINESS
Audio Slide Show: Inequality in Schools
David Leonhardt examines a preschool in Oklahoma that educates 200 of Tulsa's poorest children with private and public funding.
Related Column Maira Kalman: The Impossibility of February
The latest illustrated column from the artist and
illustrator.
WORLD
As Inflation Soars, Zimbabwe Economy
Plunges
By MICHAEL WINES
Hyperinflation has bankrupted the government, left 8 in 10 citizens destitute and decimated factories and farms.
Iraqi Premier Admits Errors in Introducing Security Plan in Baghdad
By MARC SANTORA
The prime minister acknowledged that his government had stumbled in its efforts to carry out a new security plan in
Baghdad but offered no reasons for the delay.
Indonesia May Sell, Not Give, Bird Flu Virus to Scientists
By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.
Indonesia has stopped sending samples of the virus to the World Health Organization, apparently because it is negotiating a contract with an American vaccine company.
More World
News
Back to Top
U.S.
Rural Colleges Seek New Edge and
Urbanize
By ALAN FINDER
A new concept of the college campus is taking root: a small city in the country that is not for only the young.
In Midwest, a Bitter Turn in a Temperate Winter
By SUSAN SAULNY
Frigid air and gusts of snow created below zero wind chills and white out conditions across much of the country.
Ousted Pastor Completely Heterosexual
By NEELA BANERJEE
The Rev. Ted Haggard broke a three month silence over the weekend when he contacted members of the New Life Church by e mail to tell them that he was healing.
More U.S. News
Back to Top
WASHINGTON
nytimes.com realestate
How much did J. Crew chief, Mickey Drexler pay for Andy Warhol's Montauk retreat?
Also in Real Estate:
What is the price tag of Gwyneth Paltrow's TriBeCa apartment? How much did Rupert Murdoch pay for Laurance Rockefeller's apartment in 2004? How real estate agents gear up for bonus season
House Panel Questions Monitoring of Cash Shipped to Iraq
By PHILIP SHENON
A report questioned whether huge, shrink wrapped stacks of 100 bills might
have ended up with insurgent groups.
A U.S. Attorney Was Removed Without Cause, Official Says
By DAVID JOHNSTON
A top Justice Department official said a United States attorney was dismissed to give the job to a lawyer with ties to the White House.
Libby Speaks on Tape, but May Not in Court
By NEIL A. LEWIS
I. Lewis Libby Jr. s lawyers appeared to be engaging in some gamesmanship over the possibility of not having Mr. Libby testify in his own defense.
More Washington News
Back to Top
BUSINESS
Jobs Calls for End to Music Copy Protection
By JOHN MARKOFF
Apple s chief said record companies should allow songs to be sold online without anticopying software, in part because the technology does not stop
piracy.
Allied Records Are Subpoenaed in Pretexting Case
By JULIE CRESWELL
Prosecutors want to know whether the business development company obtained the phone records of a critic through impersonation.
Shareholder Vote Today Could Settle Fight for Office REIT
By TERRY PRISTIN
The Blackstone Group leads Vornado Realty Trust in the bidding for Equity Office Properties Trust, the nation s largest office landlord.
More Business News
Back to Top
TECHNOLOGY
Jobs Calls for End to Music Copy Protection
By JOHN MARKOFF
Apple s chief said record companies should allow songs to be sold online without anticopying software, in part because the technology does not stop piracy.
Amazon and TiVo in Venture to Put Downloaded Videos on TV
By BRAD STONE
The companies will allow TiVo owners who shop on Amazon s digital download store to send films and TV shows to their broadband connected TiVo machines.
CONNECTIONS
Techie s Cyber Odyssey: Magic in Bits and Bolts
By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN
Pondering Microsoft s new Vista system from inside the belly of one of its beasts.
More Technology News
Back to Top
SPORTS
Illinois Has Rivals Fuming About Its Recruiting Coup
By PETE THAMEL and THAYER EVANS
After going 4 19 the past two seasons, Illinois has left the tight knit world of college football abuzz by putting together one of the nation s best recruiting
classes.
A Football Standout s Final Uniform Is Red, the Color of His Gang
By THAYER EVANS
The story of Mandrell Dean, a high school football star whose gang life got in the way of an athletic career, is a reminder of how perilous the transition to college can be.
KNICKS 102, CLIPPERS 90
Minor Milestones Add Up for Knicks
By HOWARD BECK
With a victory over the Clippers, the Knicks pulled to .500 at home for the first time this season and have won consecutive games for the first time in a month.
More Sports News
Back to Top
ARTS
TV WATCH
The Unseen and Unexplained, Inching Closer to the Truth
By ALESSANDRA STANLEY
ABC s Lost and NBC s Heroes, two series that traffic in the supernatural, are full of plot twists and lasting power.
Baghdad Day to Day: Librarian s Journal
By PATRICIA COHEN
Saad Eskander s Web diary details the daily hurdles of keeping Iraq s central library open, preserving the surviving archives and books and, oh yes, staying alive.
CONNECTIONS
Techie s Cyber Odyssey: Magic in Bits and Bolts
By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN
Pondering Microsoft s new Vista system from inside the belly of one of its beasts.
More Arts News
Back to Top
NEW YORK REGION
From Searing Flames, a Bleak, Cold Landscape
By MICHAEL WILSON
In a 14 acre, black, burned scar of land along the Brooklyn waterfront, the cold finds a brand new place.
Democrat Wins Senate Seat on Long Island
By BRUCE LAMBERT
The unofficial tallies showed the Democrat, Craig M. Johnson, winning about 53 percent of the votes.
New Jersey Senate Passes Tax Plan, Ending Impasse
By RONALD SMOTHERS
The measure passed by the New Jersey Senate would give 95 percent of all property owners in the state up to a 20 percent tax credit.
More New York Region News
Back to Top
DINING WINE
The Best Town to Make an Upper Lip Stiff
By KATE
SEKULES
An explosion of cocktail quality and variety in London s watering holes is making this city a new locus for connoisseurs of mixed drinks.
What the Egg Was First
By MARIAN BURROS
Unlaid eggs, treats in many cultures, have been rediscovered by chefs who appreciate their deep, concentrated flavor.
Koreans Share Their Secret for
Chicken With a Crunch
By JULIA MOSKIN
The popular cult of crunchy, spicy, perfectly nongreasy chicken has arrived in Manhattan s Korean eateries.
More Dining Wine News
Back to Top
EDITORIALS
It s the War, Senators
America went to war without nearly enough public discussion, and it needs more Senate debate about Iraq this time around, not less.
Playing Politics With Justice
The American justice system would be seriously damaged if United States attorneys were stripped of their independence.
Government Inside Out
The decision whether to use government workers
or outside contractors should be dictated by cost, rather than ideology or political favors.
EDITORIAL OBSERVER
Challenging the Mullahs, One Signature at a Time
By MAURA J. CASEY
In Iran, where the law values a woman s life at only half the price of a man s, Shirin Ebadi will not be quiet, and she is urging other women to find their voices.
More Editorials
Back to Top
OP ED
OP ED COLUMNIST
Yes, We Can Find the Exit
By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
Once we ve set a date to leave by and a gas price to live by, we, for the first time, will have choices in Iraq.
OP ED COLUMNIST
This One s for You, Joe
By MAUREEN DOWD
I feel compelled, now that Joe Biden has slipped on yet another presidential banana peel, to lend him a hand.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
Right Candidates, Wrong Question
By GLORIA STEINEM
I ve figured out how to answer reporters when they ask if I m supporting Hillary Clinton or Barack Obama. I just say yes.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
Ready for Obama Already
By MARTIN PLISSNER
There is a pretty good, if not quite conclusive, case that America has for some time been ready to elect a black president.
Go to Editorials Op Ed
Back to Top
ON THIS
DAY
On Feb. 7, 1984, space shuttle astronauts Bruce McCandless II and Robert L. Stewart went on the first untethered spacewalk. See this front page
Buy this front page
Back to Top
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy
InternetElect News. Briefly . InternetElectPress InternetElectVideo InternetElect InterElect
Bored stiff? Loosen up...
Download and play hundreds of games for free on Yahoo! Games.
MY STORY
Second Act
by
Sir Jeremiah Orion Kennedy
BLOG JAN 31st 2006
Change habits
Radical shift of thinking
It's possible to save the planet from "global warming". You must use technology and
slowly the process will shift from being not a good outcome. But only after a new way of thinking
will this goal be achieved. It will take time but i dont' think we should be blowing up any more
nuclear bombs...unhence the hole over Austraila, and curtailing our space flights might due the
ozone layer some good. If only for a short period of time. Or develop another way to enter space.
The goal here is to bring back the "order" that is most benificial to the planet. This will create new
industries that will be needed. Most importantly the recycling industry. and i do dare and say it
Laws should be placed to show people why it is important to conserve energy.
although Id rather have a candle then that Blue floursent light any day.
SJOK
BLOG Febuary 2nd 2007
Well Yesterday on the bus to work, I blacked out and woke up on the floor
of the bus. I manage to get to the office work. then called an ambulance to
the office. Got a few sitches in my forehead.
This really has nothing to do with my blog. There a more important reasons.
any way my head is fucked. speak with you soon.
Toast
BLOG FEB 2nd
Because the fact that I was hit with a non lethal weapon, from I believe to
be the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency of the Department of
Defense. I will have to document this. I already have the emergency EMS,
and hospital emergency visit. Were I was treated and had stiches place on my
fore head.
Email to family....
Yesterday for some reason I completely Black out on the Bus
while standing, That was the last thing I remember, I walk up on
the floor of the bus. With a hugh cut on my forehead.
I was taken via EMS to the emergency room. Where I was treated.
With stiches. They did a CAT scan and blood work, and that is fine.
One could say that I was hit with a "non lethal" weapon. I guess we
can continue the lies and make believe I was never tortured by the
US Government. And that even though these weapons do exist, since
you can read about the in the NY Times. Why me?
Two years ago I wrote this 2 you. That the government was torturing me,
during the North Korean six party talks. After I wrote that email. The Torture
stoped at least it was reduced. I only hope by telling you this. The Torture
will stop or at least be reduced.
Email dated August 8th 2005
Topic:Torture
Jeremiah Kennedy sirjeremiah001 yahoo.com
Sent :
Monday, August 8, 2005 10:09 AM
To :
Subject :
torture
n...
x
Since march of this year the government has been asking me to come back. I learned last week it was not to watch the north korean nuclear talks , but to be tortured so china and russia can see what control and pain they can give me.
I was hit twice one night and then once a few nights later. The six party talks in china are now on recess for three weeks. so I have three weeks to wait until it happens again.
I was thinking about going to the hospital, but it will have no effect. I will see my doctor in two weeks, and will let him know.
No need to get upset, im fine. just email and ill keep you informed
That was in August of 2005.
I dont get paid to live a lie. So why bother.
Again I am allright. I will survive. I am a tropper.
No need to answer email.
Now I need space..........again.
E Mail responses:
From Adopted Sister
Kevin sorry that you were hurt. It sounds like you were able to get the medical attention that you need. Unfortunately you still deny the mental health help that you need. If you would only take the medicine that was prescribed for you, you would get a handle on your delusions. It is your mind that is playing havoc with you, not any outside "agency or government". We love you, you are our brother, son, uncle,etc. I hope you will break your denial and get some help. Meanwhile, please take care of your cut and make sure it doesn't get infected.... Call if you need us.
Rhonda
From Adopted half sister, Step father's daughter
Kevin,
We would always be available to talk if you would ever like to. Love, Julie
From Sister in law, Step Fathers son's wife very nice person.
Kevin,
Glad that you're o.k. for now. Remember, if you ever need to call us,
please do so without hesitation. Family is family!
Love, Edye
Today's News
BEIJING Envoys to North Korean disarmament talks began gathering Wednesday, and the chief U.S. negotiator said he expected "hard bargaining" over new proposals to get the North to abandon its nuclear programs.
The resumption of the six nation talks, expected Thursday, follows a December meeting that ended in stalemate. But since then, signs have emerged of a greater willingness to compromise. Washington improved its offer for disarmament in exchange for security guarantees and energy assistance at a meeting in Berlin that North Korea described as positive.
February 14th 2007
China and Russia change stance on Iran and North Korea
North Korea agrees to stop nuclear weapons program
Mid Feb March 20th the New York Times reports that in mid Feburary Russia's Foreign Minister orders
Iran to suspend nuclear activity or it will not deliver on nuclear material needed for its Bushear peaceful
nuclear facility. At the time in Mid Fed. it was reported the Russia said it will delay the material due to
financial reasons of lack of payment from the Iranians. Not until March 20th did the real reason come forward.
I guess getting rushed to the emergency room with a gash on one head does a world of difference for
international politics. But I did not just black out and hit my head, more on that at another time. It was the
way it happened.
Blog March 17th
North Korea Give them what they want release all banks accounts. I want them at the
table. We are at a new phase in our relationship, let there not be a bump in the road.
Iran Tighten all financial insitutions across the board.
S.J.O.K.
Blog March 22nd
To reporters and news rooms: It has nothing to do with 25 million dollars.
I have no comment at this time, of why the Chinese bank did not clear the
money for North Korea.
It really is true you can't believe everything you
read. For example that Russia is not delivering nuclear material to Iran due
to lack of payment. We later found out that was a total lie. Of course that
would be a good thing and would be nice if Russia was on board to stop
the process of giving Iran a nuclear bomb.
You know I was suppose to be an architect an artist, I fucken hate this.
S.J.O.K
Blog March 23rd 2007
I LOVE AMERICA BUT DOES AMERICA LOVE ME
few years back in 1995 I was asked by the US government to come back and play a
part in international affairs. Mind you I never worked or recieived any money from the
United States government. All they did was use mind control and torture and manipulated
me. In 2003 I started to recieve social security disablilty for the torture that took place in
New York. I thought I was done, I moved from Boca Raton in 2003 to Fort Lauderdale, Florida
thinking I can now retire in a gay community and be happy, poor but happy. I was fine
with that. Until the government asked me to follow the Iran and North Korean Nuclear weapons
problem.
I am vey good at research which is why I know how mind control and the torture is done, though
satelites. After weeks of saying fuck you, you owe me for what I already went through...How
dare you ask me to come back. Finally after I researched the Iran and North Korean problem
I realized that these two countries were bascially completey lieing to the international community.
So much so that I would later feel that international politics is like dealing with children. and would
come to a term "All My Children". That might sound absurd but it really is true. The amount of lies
that comes from countries leaders. "Its like do you really think I'm a fuckin idot".
So I began to research the background and followed every step and every qoute that came from
all parties involved. In fact today on the Iran issue we should all listen to what Mr. Parry of the
United Kingdom has to say. He speaks the way I do. Anyway I began my Blog, most of which has
been erased due to mind control or pure frustration cause I started to be tortured again.
It was in the Summer of 1996 just after the space shuttle launch. The North Korean Six party talks
that I was hit with a new type of weapon. But I am forgetting one point during the time of my work
of following the news I asked "why can't you pay me". Not formally, all you have to do is mail me
cash or even a food card in the mail anymously. that never happened. So I was like ok, increase
my food stamps you can control that since it is part of the government.
I heard every excuse under the sun. But it soon became clear as the Six party talks continued and
later the P 5, Permanent five of the United Nations Security Council dealing with Iran. That the US
government now wanted me to be brain washed into becoming a sex slave. And after that to be
dehumanized, more on that at another time. So I continued to follow the news just hoping that
this eventually will end. During the Summer I say a baseball movie with Adam Sandler, and Drew
Barrymore said. "You love the Red Sox, but do they love you". Today is March 23rd 2007 a few days
after the North Korean Six party talks broke down on what was reported as a banking error. It is
not about 25 million dollars. 25 million dollars is "tit money" thats the money corporate america
uses as pocket change.
So I have to ask my self again. I love America, but does America love me.
A note to the gay community of if anyone that knows me is reading this. I really was not a sex slave.
Granted I was forced to look at a certain point. Spend many hours looking. But most of the
time nothing panned out. There was brain washing and torture yes. But the worst of the torture
took place in 1996. Meaning that I have been through much worse and that this was just directing
me on what to do...or being brain washed.
But like in the Seinfeld show, when George asks his finance to sign a pre nup.
I was like sure ill do it bring it on, bring it on. Most of the time it was just test. I would chat with
someone and be forced to face my fear. and they would never show up.
Its hard to brain wash someone or use mind control when they know that it is being done. I do
have the power to turn it on and off. Which is why we are where we are at today.
I have to ask my self If the United States Government is asking me to help with the Iran
and North Korean nuclear problems. Yet they can't send a 100 dollar Publix supermarket
food card, to me in the mail or leave it on my door or have me find it. Then I have to ask
myself does America really love me.
My story
My Story
Summer of 2006, during six party talks. Two way communication
accomplished between me and NSA. After all the stops it evolved
into now do this now do that. Until I realized that I am hearing
a voice a clear as day. After that it was possible to have 2 way
conversations with the US gov. nsa, Of course it was best not
to talk, but to communicate through typing on a computer screen.
Then the acts of doing certain things, roll on the floor, fall
to the floor and other stupid acts. Until they asked lick the toilet
seat, and later rim. that was got the North Koreans back to the
table. It was a few months later on Feb 1st when I was hit with
the weapon, non leathal weapon and sent to the hospital that got
China to tell North Korea that is was time to denuclearize.
When the Six party talks began again in March. I decided I was
not going to stop. NSA had asked me weeks before the meeting would
start, and I refused. Since I did everything they the US government
had asked, and yet I was hit with a weapon hard enough to scare me
on my face for life. I was like why? if i did what you asked and
still you tortured me. So when the Six party talks began in March
and the US gov. unforze the money for the North Koreans. China blocked
the money from transfer as a way to say to North Korea dont go
back the the talks. In fact they all waited for me to stop. I did not.
As of April 3rd the money still has not been transferred.
Monday April 9TH vol. 2
TEHRAN (Reuters) Iran is ready for serious negotiations with the West to seek a deal that would end a row over its atomic plans, Iran's chief nuclear negotiator said on Monday.
Iran has rejected U.N. demands to halt uranium enrichment, a process which the West fears Iran is using in order to build atomic bombs. Iranian media said President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad may announce on Monday that Iran is expanding its atomic work.
"Today, with the nuclear fuel cycle complete, we are ready to begin real negotiations with the aim of reaching an understanding," nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani was quoted as saying by Mehr News Agency.
"We are ready to negotiate and reach an agreement with Western countries in order to remove their worries about nuclear Iran without putting an end to our scientific development," he said in a speech in the eastern city of Mashhad.
Talks led by the European Union to end the standoff collapsed last year when Iran refused to halt uranium enrichment, a process that can be used to make atomic warheads but which Iran says it will only use to make nuclear reactor fuel for electricity generation.
Some preliminary discussions have resumed and Iranian officials have repeatedly said Tehran is open to negotiations without preconditions.
"The West should know that reaching an agreement with Iran will not be done by U.N. resolutions and if it creates tension instead of an interaction with Iran they should know that Iran will show a serious reaction," he said.
Later that day: Iran declares itself a nuclear power
NATANZ, Iran Iran announced Monday that it has begun enriching uranium with 3,000 centrifuges, defiantly expanding a nuclear program that has drawn U.N. sanctions and condemnation from the West.
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said at a ceremony at the enrichment facility at Natanz that Iran was now capable of enriching nuclear fuel "on an industrial scale."
Asked if Iran has begun injecting uranium gas into 3,000 centrifuges for enrichment, top nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani replied, "Yes." He did not elaborate, but it was the first confirmation that Iran had installed the larger set of centrifuges after months of saying it intends to do so. Until now, Iran was only known to have 328 centrifuges operating.
Uranium enrichment can produce fuel for a nuclear reactor or the material for a nuclear warhead. The United States and its allies accuse Iran of intending to produce weapons, a charge the country denies.
Sean McCormack, the State Department spokesman, said the U.N. Security Council and the U.N. nuclear watchdog group "don't believe Iran's assurances that their (nuclear) program is peaceful in nature."
The Vienna based International Atomic Energy Agency the U.N. nuclear watchdog, had no immediate comment on Monday's announcement.
The United Nations has vowed to ratchet up sanctions as long as Iran refuses to suspend enrichment. The Security Council first imposed limited sanctions in December, then increased them slightly last month and has set a new deadline of late May.
"What we are looking for are reasonable Iranian leaders who view the cost benefit calculation and see that it is not to the benefit of the Iranian people to continue to pursue the course on which they find themselves," McCormack said.
Iranian state television reported Monday that an Iranian Revolutionary Guard general who is under travel restrictions urged by the sanctions has visited Russia without any difficulty.
Gen. Mohammad Baqer Zolqadr, who is also deputy interior minister for security affairs, was quoted on the state TV Web site as saying that his six day journey to Moscow, which ended Monday, showed "the ineffectiveness of the resolution."
The resolution urges all governments to ban visits by the 15 individuals and says that should such visits occur presumably for exceptional circumstances the countries should notify a U.N. committee.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman Andrei Krivtsov confirmed that Zolqadr visited Russia. He told The Associated Press that the resolution does not prohibit visits by the listed individuals, but calls for heightened vigilance "directed first of all at people who are directly related to nuclear programs" suggesting that Zolqadr was not.
In his speech, Ahmadinejad insisted Iran has been cooperative with the U.N. nuclear watchdog, allowing it inspections of its facilities, but he warned, "Don't do something that will make this great nation reconsider its policies" in a reference to the threat of increased U.N. sanctions. "With great honor, I declare that as of today our dear country has joined the nuclear club of nations and can produce nuclear fuel on an industrial scale," Ahmadinejad said. Larijani, said his country was willing to offer assurances that its program is peaceful. But he said the West must accept its nuclear program as a fact.
"We are ready to reach understanding with the Westerners through a corridor of real negotiations in the current situation, in which Iran's nuclear activities have been concluded," state television quoted Larijani as saying.
"The understanding regards assuring the other party about the peacefulness of Iran's nuclear activities," he said. "But we do not give in our rights."
On April 9, 2006, Iran announced it had first enriched uranium using an array of 164 centrifuges.
Across Iran, school bells rang on Monday to mark the "national day of nuclear energy." The government sent out text messages of congratulations for the occasion to millions of mobile phone users.
BLOG April 19th 2007
To the New York Times and any other credible news organization. If you think
it is taking this long to give the North Korean's 25 million dollars you are not
only spreading lies but you are very naive.
Here is the statement from the China Foreign Minister spokesman today April 19th EST:
China calls for urgency in talks on N. Korean funds (Kyodo) _ China said Thursday it has urged all parties trying to resolve the banking problem that is holding up the six way talks on North Korea's nuclear programs to show more urgency.
Speaking at a regular press briefing, Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao added that the issue remains unsolved because of a number of "technical problems," without elaborating.
"At the moment, there isn't any new information on this unresolved problem," he said. "We hope relevant parties can adopt a more urgent attitude to this problem to enable it to be solved as quickly as possible."
Despite an agreement reached Feb. 13, the talks appear to have lost momentum due to an unresolved row over about 25 million of North Korea linked funds that were frozen in a Macao bank.
North Korea failed to meet a deadline last week to take initial steps toward denuclearization as part of the agreement due to the financial dispute.
The six party talks involve the two Koreas, the United States, China, Japan and Russia.
__________________________
My position is very clear to the National Security Agency. If you force me to stop and do
dehumanized acts. I will go to the mental hospital once again. You see I did almost everything
that was asked of me by the US government, and still I was hit with a non lethal weapon that
made me completly black out while riding a bus that was heading to my adopted half brothers
office while he was in Lake Tahoe for the Super Bowl. The date was Feb 1st 2007. It just so
happens that my brothers office happens to sell metal to the military aircraft. in an import export
company. Since the office is a one man operation. I occasionally take messages if he goes on vacation
. Any way I was sent to the hospital vie ambulance a few weeks later North Korea decided to return to the talks.
When the Six party talks began again in March. I was like why should I begin stoping and doing what you say
when you sent me to the hospital with 4,000 dollars in bills. Hence I wrote the " I love America, but does America
Love me". It would seem not.
You begin the torture to make me stop and I will enter the mental hospital for reasons only to document that
you hit me with a non leathal weapon, and are torturing me in order to some day be able to recieve justice.
There is a cycle that has been happening over the past few years. every time the six party talks occur I am
tortured and force to do certain things. After the US goverment usually asks me back and wants me to read
the news and follow the important stories. Only to be tortured again. This is why I am writing this.
Unless it takes weeks for the United States government to give the North Koreans 25 million dollars.
Red tape or all lies.
All the Best
Kevin Tarr
aka
Jeremiah Kennedy
PS: i erased most of my blog. but you can get the jest here at this site
http: www.plazoo.com en rss2 FEEDID:77999.rss
Blog April 30th
To my loyal readers:
Just wanted to let you know I am doing fine. I spend my days in my garden or at the beach
and have gotten a one year membership to a gym that gets me away from the computer, due to
my family that pays for that expense. I live a very humble life. I do not have to go to a 9 5 job.
My life is watching the World. I see the hourndess, activites. I see what is wrong. What can be.
I am trying to bring Russia and China into new way of thinking. One that is a more demorcratic
business understanding. That it is in our best interest to see a new "World Enlightment". I am
not G.W. Bush. I am a new person, one that will bring a change for the better, for all.
I also got through the Solana EU talks with Iran, which was last week. It seems that we are at
stage where both countries Iran and North Korea do not understand what the word "disarm" means.
If you are a intelligent reader you would understand that Iran is fueling the war in Iraq. They have
only to gain to see the United States see another Vietnam, and maybe Russia has also to gain from
seeing this happen also. hence again why Russia is so against seeing Iran be penailized in the
Security Council.
For Iran to come to a meeting before the 27 nation of the European Union and say "We will not stop enrichment
of our nuclear program" even though the United Nations Security Council has ordered you to stop, is
PURE stupity.
If you want direct talks with the United States of America I would say it was time to stop
all nuclear enrichment at once bring in the IAEA, bring in the international community in to say yes
we are a country of peace and say yes we want only a peaceful nuclear means.
Now I have a new meeting to go to that will be on Wed. between the World Leaders. My stance is
this " Iran think about your people. but then again you tell you women how to dress and you are
backwards. You do dont now what the word "enlightment" is. you choose to be a backwards county
that is ruled by few that is controlled by few in and in the long run you will be fucked.
By a Gay American Jew. who happens to be a Kennedy.
My Sword is up. You want to talk to the United States, then fully compley with the UN.
Then we can talk. Diplomacy can only last last so long. You can talk to the ministers and you can bullshit the press so long.
And yes I can do much damage, to your so called peaceful nuclear faciltlies.
Speak to my ministers .....until then think about your people.
Jeremiah Orion Kennedy
L.O.V.E
Let Our Violence end
Blog
May 8th 2007
My intention is to go to a mental hospital
Over the past few weeks, and actually since march. The national security agency has been
asking me to stop. To be dehumanized, and listen to commands that I hear. I told them back
in Feb of 2007, "why should I stop, I did everything you asked and still you sent me to the
hospital" I wrote about this in my blog "I love America, but does America love me"
NSA would like to say to me that I should face my fears and I should just do what they say.
I am not being paid by NSA the National Security Agency, and the call me a coward. For not
wanting to act like a robot and follow all the commands.
So basically this is were I stand if the torture continues so much, so that I am forced to stop, or
follow commands I will enter a mental hospital. I found one close by that is quite nice. I should be
in there for a week or more. This is why the talks between Iran and Solana are not going to take
place anytime soon. And if they do there will be no agreement.
At sometimes I am made to think that I am a Knight. Yes I do send Codes, and yes the other countries
are well aware that I am previe to when something major is about to happen. I am the one from the
secret government that tells the other World leaders how it really is. That is true. I am also made to
believe that this might be a distraction so as not to get sweeped away with who I am actually.
It's quite simple If I am forced to be dehumanized this will trigger my heading to the Mental hospital
for a week or so. Just thought you should know. Other then that I am doing fine. Today I went to the
beach and got a bunch of shells for my garden, due to the nasty weather off the coast of Florida.
Also I had sex once, for 10 min in a month yesterday. Some sex slave.....
All the best,
Jeremiah
Blog
May 16th
Why I don't blog so often
I really never wanted to be famous if so I would have but a video on months ago. It
has come to me to realize how my life a taken shape and what I do. I used to be an
artist an architect. I also follow the horror of what has happened, and also the world
events. To get by I have been searching for the most equiste music, by the best
orchestra, and the best solo artist. I have been trying to bring beauty to my garden
by finding the most rare plants. ... I have come to understand that I am trying to
shield my self, from what I see.
Again I am real. This is not a made up story.
It is time to come to terms. That I am a Statesman. I am a World leader. I do not
right very often, for reasons of many. Maybe its greed and wishing why should I tell
the truth if not being paid. Or maybe its because I dont want to be the one to tell
the truth, and be scene as something that I am not.
I do have much to say about America The United States of America....I do.
Like why the tabacco industry should be in the fore front of the Presidential campaing
of 2008. Should not the President of the United States say "why are there 300 toxic
chemicals in cigarettes, like arsenic, ammonia, and countles other toxins that will not
only kill the person smoking but also the unborn and the person right next to them.
Should we Say to Hillary Clinton and the other Pres. canditates..what are you going
to do about the tabocco industy. Should they be able to kill us and our children. Should
not this be a major point, one that kills God knows how many each year. Tell the
Tabacco industy, fine but only tabacco in you cigars and cigarrettes. I would like
my child or for me for that matter...when I go to a bar to live.
Why the Chemical companies like Teflon what has been said to be toxic is not only
found on pans, and not in cleaning product and Soutchgard that make our carpets
so satin resistant...yet kills us when we breath...I would like a stain, for my breath.
We only need to follow Cancer to what the Man has brought us ....do not go the way
of synthic...meaning what is man made....but look to torward nature....what God has
given us. This might seem upsurd. But you really must look towards nature to find the
cure. This might relieve alot of people from the pain the feel from being traped in the
homes. With the air on and all the chemicals that are breeding....but thats science....
lets move on shall we...
Regarding the Pres. run of 2008....I know Hillary and she knows me. I believe she is a
true stateman one the can be President. Yet we are are at a time when we need to find
an individual that can actually win the White House. We are at a time when you better
make sure, that the person the is running to win the Oval Office is one will actually win.
That mean win. I was raised Jewish and I am gay, but we are in a time that cannot afford
to risk excuse me putting a female or a black American in the fore fore front to be the
next leader of the United States. Granted I would Vote for Hillary and Bill is the Best.
Yet do we want to lose. Now that Bloomberg might run as a independent this can get
tricky. I say put the person in front that can win the White House. Lets look at how well
Couric did on CBS...America voted and they choose to watch the other channels. We
need to understand how America will vote. Lets not this 2008 Pres. campaign for the
run for the American House be about "American Values" abortion...stem cell, religon.
We are Americans...let this be about something more. Lets build open what we learned
from our European friends. Yet we must understand the philosopy of the eastern world
such as China that once was.
Again...I dont really like to give my feeling in a day to day blog. So I ask you to bare
with me as I find myself in my new way.
PS: Dont even get me started on Iran. Opps I did again.
All the Best
Jeremiah Orion Kennedy
L.O.V.E.
Let Our Violence End
Blog
May 19th
Your welcome to listen to my radio station
To my loyal readers, I tried to get a link within the blog to get to my
personal yahoo radio station. My only choose was Microsoft's Pandora.
Since I do not like Microsoft, for reasons that it sucks. I have decided to
post the following link. So you can enjoy the music that brings comfort to me.
http: music.yahoo.com launchcast station.asp?u 1969319932
This music does not include classical nor opera. The radio station "Toastinn"
is basically music before disco. Occasionally Yahoo will throw something
in to promote, but basically this Internet radio station has my taste in music.
Enjoy
Toast
Blog
May 19th
The Internet and how it has brought us the truth
Its Saturday evening and I am just watching the Mets and Yankees play when I came
across my Uncle Ted. On the Video Ted Kennedy talks about net neutrality.
In the 80's When I began to follow something called open architecture, it was a new
computer system that would be able to link and bring information to people allowing
researchers and the educational community to expand.
It really is quite shameful that not only in China but here in the United States. The big
companies are being forced by governments to filter the information, and ban sites
all together. What could have been a free exchange of ideas and information is not.
I find when I hear about news from say Russia that a major figure has given a speech.
The speech one given by Putin and another by another high official. For the life of me
I could not get access to the speech. The major news outlets Reuters and Associated
press all did the same article with just a few quotes. I even went to the Nytimes and
the washington post, and just the same sound bites. Not the Full speech, nothing of
substance of what that leader said.
These big companies like Goggle and Yahoo we all have read are filtering information
based on the country that they are operating in. Not to mention that AOL with the use
of the IM, instant message feature is allowing the United States government easy access
into all your computers.
In some ways the internet with electronic mail, and the video camera has brought a new
form of justice. One that a government can not run away from. Take for example the
Gonzales or any other Washigton scandal of the past few years. Its like saying you did
not say or do this, yet you wrote about on this day and time. Since we have your email.
It is becoming harder for governments to lie, not that that is going to stop George.
The internet can bring about a new enlightment. One that brings out the truth. The stupity
and the mass brain washing distractions need to come to an end. When it has been proven
the Cig's cause cancer, is in not time to form a cause to stop it. Or should we listen to the
special interests groups that believe it is there right to control Washington. The truth can
come out.
The special interest groups would make a lovely 2008 Presidential issue. There are many
with have the Pharamatical companies, the Chemical companies, the tabacoo industry. These
ladies and gentlemen are the once that are causing cancer. along with others.
Someone once told me the reason why marijauana is illegall. Is the Cotten Industry. This might
at first seem silly. But if you think about it it might make sense. I buy a t shirt and no less then
a few months go by it has a hole or two. If it was bad from Kemp, that t shirt would last for years
with no holes. Not only did our founding Fathers smoke weed, the paper was made from it. It is
also been proven that we can make gasoline from it. Canada's government understands what
this plant can do. That is why in Canada the government has a hugh cave inside a moutain that
is growing marijauana. I am sure they are using some for drug research. I will say it time and
time again. We must look to what God has given us to find the cures, and medicine. Not the
synthetic the Pharamtical companies and adding that if we watch the commercial might cause
heart attacks or even death.
But let me now lose track the article was suppose to be about Ted Kennedy and his message of
what the Internet can do.
The internet can change the world. One government at a time.
It can join artists together. Like a violinst with a composer or a song writer.
It can undue what the government did in the 50's. It took control of all the large media.
for what they call national security reasons. Its why ABC, NBC, CBC are always talking about the
same thing. What they are allowed to broadcast. You see America we are just as bad a Russia if
not worse. A few months back Putin decided to catch up so he formed a special group that is doing
what the United States has been doing for decades. Total control over the media, with Mass distraction
forced upon us, just when it is needed the most. Its the old magician trick...look here not at Israel.
Don't worry about all the Torture that the Military has been doing that is against all laws. Look at CSI,
and Criminal Minds. Or better yet see the first Saw movie. That change your way of thinking. de something
or other. So any way Putin formed a group that will do exactly what we have been doing from. Print to movies
to music to today's news.
Lets America try and stop the special interest groups. I want you to ask Hillary and any other Pres. candidate
"Why is the arsenic, ammonia and 300 other toxic chemicals in cig's. Did we not to a strudy a few years back
that found all these chemicals added to the tabacco. And after this study what did the Congress the Senate, and
the White House do about it. Not one Fucking thing. And when it came time to make the tabacco companies to
pay, the US government settled for giving the money to television Ad's. They took billions of dollars that could go
towards treatment, health and gave it to the media companies via TV ad's.
This is the internet. Who ever wins the White House in 2008. Should be held personally responsible. That is my
point on the Tabacco industry.
All the best,
Jeremiah
The Region: Lebanon's next round
Barry Rubin, THE JERUSALEM POST
Feb. 5, 2007
Round One of Hizbullah's attempt to take over Lebanon has failed. Watch out for Round Two. The struggle over Lebanon is a battle in the war being waged by Iran, Syria, and their allies seeking to control the Middle East. Hizbullah is the largest group representing the Shi'ite Muslim community in multicultural Lebanon. But Hizbullah is also the client of Teheran and Damascus, acting in their interest more than that of Lebanon itself. Indeed, Hizbullah leader Hassan Nasrallah is the official local representative of Iran's spiritual guide.
Against Hizbullah stand the majority of the other communities, Christian, Sunni Muslim, and Druse. This alliance controls the government of Prime Minister Fuad Saniora; the president, Emile Lahoud, is a Syrian client, elected in 1998 when Damascus controlled the electoral process. Last summer's war, set off by Hizbullah's cross border raids against Israel, let the Islamist group pose both as victor and as Lebanon's patriotic champion.
Both claims are thin. Hizbullah did not so much win as survive the war. Lebanon suffered tremendous material damage. While Hizbullah staged showy ceremonies to give money for reconstruction reportedly counterfeit US dollars it has done little since then. Moreover, the dispatch of a UN force to southern Lebanon as part of the cease fire blocks Hizbullah's ability to attack Israel or control that area.
WHATEVER political capital Hizbullah gained in the war was quickly squandered as the group sought to take over Lebanon. Hizbullah's arrogance and aggressiveness forced most other political forces to align against it.
In its propaganda, Hizbullah denounced these rivals, known as the March 14 movement, as American and Israeli agents. This movement began after the assassination of popular former prime minister Rafik Hariri by Syria in February 2005. Since then there have been about 20 terrorist operations, mostly attempts engineered by Syria to murder other leading politicians and journalists.
In his shrill speeches, Nasrallah who remained in hiding, fearful of Israeli retaliation took a hard line stance. Demonstrations were organized, roads blocked, and massive sit ins established to show Hizbullah's power.
But the majority struck back. Christian and Sunni Muslim militias asserted their control over the places where those communities lived in Beirut. They also cut roads, showing that Shi'ite neighborhoods could be easily surrounded and isolated. The government refused to resign.
TWO THINGS particularly anger most Lebanese. First, in its bid for power Hizbullah is ready to drag the country back into communal civil war. Everyone remembers the terrible strife and bloodshed that shook the country from 1975 to 1990 when 100,000 people were killed, 100,000 seriously injured, 250,000 emigrated, and almost 1 million displaced during that fighting in a country whose population is under 4 million. That Hizbullah is ready to revive that senseless slaughter and wreckage in order to impose a Shi'ite Islamist state on Lebanon a country about half non Muslim and 70 percent non Shi'ite is horrifying.
The second problem is Hizbullah's subservience to Iran and Syria. While the group does represent most, though by no means all, Lebanese Shi'ites, its positions are often dictated by foreign interests.
For example, Hizbullah is trying to block any serious inquiry into the Hariri murder and punishment of those responsible. Both UN directed and Lebanese investigations have shown direct involvement by Syria's regime and its Lebanese clients. Indeed, the UN investigation named both the brother and brother in law of Syrian President Bashar Assad as being behind the killing. Hizbullah's and Syria's number one demand is that the Lebanese government must abandon the effort to find who killed Hariri.
THE NUMBER TWO demand is that Hizbullah be given 30 percent of the power in Lebanon's government. This alone would let it veto anything, such as an attempt to disarm Hizbullah's private army or put southern Lebanon under government rule. This would also be enough to give Hizbullah, along with its pro Syrian allies, control of the government altogether.
The other two demands, backed by Syria, are to have quick parliamentary elections and get rid of the March 14 movement's legislative majority; but no presidential elections, to keep Syria's man in office. Lebanon's government is never going to accept these conditions. It is also unlikely despite the temptation felt by many in the West that democratic countries are going to turn over Lebanon to Syria in order to appease the Damascus regime.
As a result, Hizbullah's first bid for power has been turned back. But it may not be long before Hizbullah, and its Syrian sponsors, turn to Plan B: the assassination of Lebanese leaders. One cabinet minister, Pierre Gemayel, was killed last November, on a day when an attempt against another minister failed. If two more ministers were killed, the government would fall.
The other tactic could be attacks on UN forces in southern Lebanon in an attempt to drive them out of the country. Syria has hinted such assaults may take place. Though carried out by Syrian agents, they would be blamed on shadowy al Qaida forces.
Lebanon is a battlefield in the broader effort of Iran and Syria to gain hegemony in the region. It is imperative that Lebanon's government and majority be given international support so they can resist this campaign, whose ultimate power rests on a base of terrorism and subversion.
The writer is director of the Global Research in International Affairs (GLORIA) Center of the Interdisciplinary Center, and editor of the Middle East Review of International Affairs (MERIA) journal.
This article can also be read at http: www.jpost.com servlet Satellite?cid 1170359788063 pagename JPost 2FJPArticle 2FShowFull
Back to the Article
Copyright 1995 2007 The Jerusalem Post http: www.jpost.com
First off I am proud to say I am a card carrying Republican. With that said, I am not sure whom I will vote for in the 2008 Presidential election. Even though I have always voted a straight party ticket due to the fact that I do not believe voting one way for the President and then pretty much canceling out that vote by voting for the opposite party of the President s for Congress. Makes sense, right? In 2008 I may not heed that same thinking. You see the more I see and hear Barack Obama, Barack Obama's Presidential Site , I am starting to really like the guy. The Republicans have not announced any candidates, officially, and I am very anxious to see who we will pit against, in my opinion, a very strong Democratic foe. I do believe if the Democrats choose Hillary Rodham Clinton that the Republicans will win in 2008, but if they choose Barack Obama we may have a fight on our hands. Heck, I am even thinking about voting for the man, not the party, but the man himself. I would love to see Colin Powell run for the Republicans and put him up against Mr. Obama. Man that would be really really cool!! Agree?
Unfortunately, I feel Mr. Powell has pretty much tasted and disliked public life. Can t blame him since Mr. Dick Cheney seemed to have more control, and still does, over our current President W who chose not to listen to a 4 star General, Mr. Powell, and instead a Vice President with no military background except being the Secretary of Defense, at one time, which in my opinion is a suit who thinks they know how to run a military. Like the ol saying, Those who can can and those who can t teach . I have heard that Mr. Powell s plan for Iraq was to send upwards of 500,000 troops into Iraq but he was completely shot down by the Veep and Mr. Rumsfield. In my opinion if the Prez would have listened to Mr. Powell instead of the two monkeys he did listen to, that we would be out of Iraq at this time with a victory by our troops. With over 500K troops, we could have taken Baghdad and then went into a policing role why the new Iraqi government was formed and voted on by its people.
Thoughts
P Tags: Barack Obama , President , Presidential Election 2008 , George W Bush , Dick Cheney , Colin Powell
Sunday, February 11, 2007
Compiled 2 AM E.T. In This E Mail:
World U.S. Washington Business Technology
Sports Arts New York Region Magazine Editorials Op Ed
Customize Today's Headlines Search
TOP STORIES
Advertisement
Congress Finds Ways to Avoid Lobbyist Limits
By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK
Lawmakers continue to invite corporate lobbyists to help pay for fund raisers that look a lot like the ones that Congress just barred lobbyists from sponsoring.
Putin Says U.S. Is Undermining Global Stability
By THOM SHANKER and MARK LANDLER
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia accused the United States of provoking a new nuclear arms race.
Troubles Grow for a University Built on Profits
By SAM DILLON
Educators and
students say the University of Phoenix s focus on the bottom line has eroded academic quality.
NYTimes.com Homepage
Back to Top
QUOTATION OF THE DAY
"Today we are witnessing an almost uncontained hyper use of force in international relations military force."
VLADIMIR V. PUTIN, President of Russia, on the U.S.
NEW YORK REGION
Audio Photos: A Ministry in the Cold
Encampments of homeless people in Ocean County, N.J., depend on a minister for propane to power their heaters and stoves. Related Article This Land: On a Big Sign, Raw Words
Dan Barry meets a Pennsylvania restaurateur who rails against illegal immigrants, gas prices and Iraq on his marquee. Audio Slide Show
WORLD
In Niger, Trees and Crops Turn Back the Desert
By LYDIA POLGREEN
Farmers simple methods have helped
revive millions of newly tree covered acres in a dust choked region.
New Setback in North Korean Nuclear Talks
By JIM YARDLEY
Negotiations stalled over disagreements about the size and timing of the aid package to be provided in exchange for shutting down nuclear weapons facilities.
New Boss Takes Reins of U.S. Forces in Iraq
By DAMIEN CAVE
Gen. David H. Petraeus declared that the mission for American troops in Iraq is hard but not hopeless.
More World News
Back to Top
U.S.
New Episcopal Leader Braces for Gay Rights Test
By LAURIE GOODSTEIN
Bishop Katharine Jefferts Schori may face hostility at a meeting in Tanzania with Anglican bishops.
Critics Question Education Department s Screening
By JONATHAN D. GLATER
About 100 academic researchers have signed a letter of protest over the breadth of background checks.
THIS LAND
He s Got a Big Sign, and He s Not Afraid to Use It
By DAN BARRY
On the sign outside his restaurant, a Pennsylvania man has railed against illegal immigrants, gas prices and the Bush administration s policies on Iraq.
More U.S. News
Back to
Top
WASHINGTON
nytimes.com travel
Where to find the perfect Caribbean escape this winter
Also in Travel:
Where foodies go for a great Caribbean vacation Where you might find Paul McCartney or David Letterman in the Caribbean Where beach bums go in the Caribbean
Critics Question Education Department s Screening
By JONATHAN D. GLATER
About 100 academic researchers have signed a letter of protest over the
breadth of background checks.
Obama Formally Enters Presidential Race
By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JEFF ZELENY
Senator Barack Obama of Illinois offered himself as the face of a new generation that would change government.
In New Hampshire, Clinton Owns Up to Her Vote on Iraq War
By PATRICK HEALY
Campaigning in the state for the first time as a presidential candidate, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton faced questions and scrutiny about Iraq.
More Washington News
Back to Top
BUSINESS
It s Alive! Meet One of Biotech s Zombies
By ANDREW POLLACK
In its 25 years in drug research, Xoma has burned through 700 million and never earned an operating profit nor brought a product to
market.
In India, the Golden Age of Television Is Now
By VIKAS BAJAJ
The pace of change in India is supercharged because the country is catching up to, and in some cases leapfrogging, developments that took decades to play out elsewhere.
DEALBOOK
The Biggest
Buyout Ever Could Have Been Bigger
By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN
Is Samuel Zell the hero in the epic battle for Equity Office Properties?
More Business News
Back to Top
TECHNOLOGY
In India, the Golden Age of Television Is Now
By VIKAS BAJAJ
The pace of change in India is supercharged because the country is catching up to, and in some cases leapfrogging, developments that
took decades to play out elsewhere.
PING
When It Comes to Innovation, Geography Is Destiny
By G. PASCAL ZACHARY
Give birth to a tech idea in Silicon Valley, and the chances of success soar.
PROTOTYPE
Recasting the Word Processor for a Connected World
By MICHAEL FITZGERALD
Timing is the bane of those who would be innovators. Get it right and you ll be toasted. Get it wrong and you re just plain toast.
More Technology News
Back to Top
SPORTS
Las Vegas Has Got the Game, but It Wants a Team
By LIZ ROBBINS
Las Vegas, which will host this
year s N.B.A. All Star Game next weekend, wants to showcase itself as worthy of becoming a full time major league city.
Surf s Upscale as Sport Reverses Beach Bum Image
By MATT HIGGINS
Surfing is now a status sport like skiing and golf, fueling a booming market for vacations, instruction and gear.
Matsuzaka Masterpiece: Glimpses of
Greatness in Arm of Teenager
By JACK CURRY
Eight and a half years ago, Daisuke Matsuzaka established his legendary status in Japan with a feat of endurance that is still hard to fathom in the context of Major League Baseball.
More Sports News
Back to Top
ARTS
MUSIC
Alpine, N.J., Home of Hip Hop Royalty
By DOUGLAS
CENTURY
A longtime preserve of the wealthy white elite has blossomed into the favored bedroom community of rap's moneyed set.
GAMING
Game On: Hero Returns to Slay His Dragons
By SETH SCHIESEL
Brad McQuaid saw the future of online gaming early. Now he s trying to catch up to it again.
ART
What They Keep for Love
By RANDY KENNEDY
In a boom market, a P.S. 1 show focuses on the unthinkable: artworks their creators won t sell.
More Arts News
Back to Top
NEW YORK REGION
A Ministry in the Cold, With a Gospel of Propane
By KAREEM FAHIM
In Lakewood,
N.J., the homeless hunker down in three encampments. Connecting them is a minister who travels around in a bus delivering propane and heating stoves.
Officer Is Critically Hurt in Brooklyn Shooting
By CARA BUCKLEY
The husband of another officer was being questioned in the shooting, the police said.
Long Treated as Volunteers, Tips Only Supermarket
Baggers Take Up Fight for Hourly Wage
By STEVEN GREENHOUSE
In a new front in the wage and hour wars, many baggers are insisting that they should be paid like other supermarket workers.
More New York Region News
Back to Top
MAGAZINE
Great Performers
By LYNN HIRSCHBERG
A photographic portfolio of the actors and actresses who defined excellence in the past year.
The Needle and the Damage Done
By ELIZABETH WEIL
Lethal injections are often botched and sometimes painful. Doctors don t want to administer them. Is it time to kill this form of execution?
Fugitive
By JIM DWYER
How Orlando Boquete sentenced to 50 years for a crime he never committed broke out of prison, spent 10 years on the lam and eventually won his freedom.
More Magazine News
Back to Top
EDITORIALS
T.R.? He s No T.R.
For six years, President Bush has pursued an across the board antiregulatory crusade aimed not only at undoing Bill Clinton s environmental legacy but also at weakening bedrock economic law stretching back to Richard Nixon.
A Very Partial Palestinian Peace
The creation of a coalition cabinet might make peace with Israel more imaginable if there is a lot more compromise from Hamas and a lot more diplomatic help from Washington.
EDITORIAL OBSERVER
Decoding the Debate Over the Blackness of Barack Obama
By BRENT STAPLES
The hue and cry over Barack Obama s identity stems from a failure by black traditionalists to recognize multiracial versions of themselves.
More Editorials
Back to Top
OP ED
OP ED COLUMNIST
Stop Him Before He Gets More Experience
By FRANK RICH
If time in the United States Senate is what counts for presidential seasoning, maybe Barack Obama s two years worth is already too much.
OP ED COLUMNIST
Death by Dollars
By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Sudan is a rare instance where narrowly focused divestment makes practical as well as moral sense.
OP ED COLUMNIST
Who s Afraid of the New Economy?
By DAVID BROOKS
A group of Democratic economists and strategists is taking on the rising neopopulists.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
Penny Foolish
By DAVID MARGOLICK
Don t consign our greatest president to a tiddlywink.
Go to Editorials Op Ed
Back to Top
ON THIS DAY
On Feb. 11, 1945, President Roosevelt, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet leader Josef Stalin signed the Yalta Agreement during World War II. See this front page
Buy this front page
Back to Top
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy
No need to miss a message. Get email on the go
with Yahoo! Mail for Mobile. Get started.
On Saturday Barak Obama formally announced his candadacy for the President of the USA. Now begins the hard work of raising 250,000 PER DAY to fund his campaign. Call me a cynic, but this money won't be coming in 5 and 10 dollar increments in envelopes from people like you and me. To get money like that Mr. Obama has to reach into the deep corporate pockets and the coffers of the rich and well heeled. And the wealthy corporate interests will view this as an investment, expecting some future return.
I like Obama. I like his fresh approach and his gospel of hope, although hope is a politician's stock in trade. I like the way he infuses his message with a secular religiosity. I like his stance on the war and his down to earth manner. I like Edwards too, and I also like Hillary, as much as I can like a moderate Republican in a Democrat's tailored pantsuit. If she was a man I probably wouldn't like her.
Perhaps it's too much for me to expect democracy to function in a country of 300 million. Democracy is more suited to a condo association or a county board. Even there I have my doubts. When we say our President is democratically elected, we mean that we choose a person from one of two parties who has become a viable candidate by amassing money and attention from success in Iowa, New Hampshire, and other primaries. Even then our vote is filtered through the Electoral College which virtually guarantees that one sided states such as California, Texas, Illinois, and New York will be ignored in the campaign, except as a source of funds to pay for ads in Ohio, Florida, Virginia and other swing states.
We have more choice in the supermarket than at the ballot box. At least there we can pick between apples and oranges. In the last Presidential election we could choose from the rich Democrat or the Republican son of a president. Granny Smith or Red Delicious? The prior election offered us the son of a senator as the Democratic candidate. Before that Clinton or Dole? Both were moderate Republicans, as were Clinton and Bush Sr.
Just as my cynicism is about to crest into a tsunami, a strong wind blows, tempering the wave. In today's mail arrived a letter from Mr. Obama, addressed to me, which begins, "Dear Carol, I am running for President of the United States." After that six paragraphs of meaninglessness. But then the fresh breeze, "...it's not the magnitude of our problems that concerns people the most. It's the smallness of our politics." OK...I'm softening a little. "It's the idea that there isn't much we can agree on or do about the major challenges facing America. It's the tendency for the Washington skeptics and partisans...using fear, divisiveness and other cheap tricks to win their argument, even if we lose our solution in the process."
"There is a sense in America today that politics has lost its purpose that government can no longer make a difference. That...politics has stopped speaking to what matters in the lives of the American people." Mr. Obama closes by quoting Dr. Martin Luther King Jr: "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice." Obama agrees, but, "..his (Dr. King's) words are a challenge, not a prophecy, for justice is not a self fulfilling creed. It is up to each of us to place our hands on that arc, to bend it toward the promise and possibilities of our moment in history and toward the America we know in our hearts we can achieve."
I know that our president's primary role is symbolic. He or she is a figurehead representing the present moral and political state of 300 million Americans. On him are focused our hopes for the future and through him we are educated, indoctrinated, and transformed. Twenty six years of Republican governance (including Clinton's eight years) have left us with a distaste for, and a distrust and fear of government. We have been told too long to not pay taxes, that we should "starve the beast." Too much has been outsoursed and too much trust has been placed in the private sector's ability to accomplish public good. And we have been willing accomplices in this corporate scam.
Thank you Barak for this message of hope. Hope may be what you're selling, but I'll willingly buy hope for a government that governs and doesn't abdicate it's responsibility. Hope for a government that regulates to preserve the environment and foster safe workplaces. Hope for a government that tells large corporations what to do instead of vice versa. Hope that this country will not remain the world's largest bully, fighting a never ending "war" against against a faceless terrorist enemy. And hope that my 100 along with the donations of my friends and neighbors will pay dividends for decades to come.
John Edwards was on the hot seat last week for opinions expressed by members of his staff. Melissa McEwan and Amanda Marcotte are campaign workers on Edwards presidential campaign team that have expressed controversial opinions on their blogs. What's really interesting here is that Edwards has come under fire for opinions expressed by his staff over the period of time before they worked for him. This begs the question, is anything a person says or does on the Internet fair game for judgment when it comes to applying for jobs, promotions, dating? You name it. Should we be searching someone's history on the net before dating them? hiring them? I know people who do this now. It's becoming much more difficult to have a separate identity from work to home to play. Some people use alter ego identities so they can be a drunken porn star on YouTube and still keep their day job. But what happens when the drunken porn star's real identity gets exposed? Can he be fired?
There is no standard on how to use extraneous information on blog posts or personal spaces. In my opinion it was the right thing for Edwards to NOT fire the blogger's because of opinions they held. But what if he had? Did he have the right to? No one knows the issues that will begin to emerge as the Internet develops and an archive of our history is stored for all to see, and search.
I think people should be prepared to take responsibility for opinions they express online through whatever channel they may be using and assume that eventually all identities will be revealed ( remember Loneygirl15 ). The responsibility lies equally between all parties to do your due diligence when hiring and be transparent when being hired. Blogs can be an incredibly strong mechanism for driving change, influencing cultures and self expression. But that cuts both ways. Blogger's should be prepared to and expect to defend their opinions; good, bad, right or wrong. This is the right we all have, and the responsibility.
What is wrong with the world? I know that many people ask that very question everyday. Last night I found myself asking that same question numerous times. Not due to the recent tragedies here in Salt Lake, and the other shootings in other states over the past few days. Rather to the fact that people care more about the death of Anna Nicole Smith. I like to tune into the news networks from time to time, and when I did so last night it made me sick. The first 45 minutes of "Hannity and Colmes" were devoted to the Anna Nicole story. Sure it's sad that she is dead after recently giving birth. Yes it's sad when a young mother passes on; but I don't really care about the details of how this transpired. I would be more interested to see or hear some of the 911 calls from people trapped in Trolley square than to hear some casino person say that Anna Nicole is unconscious.
In a world where celebrities are the obsession of the masses, we lose sight of the things that are truly of importance. The Anna Nicole story is almost a week old, but it dominates the national news. Forget that a new candidate has entered the race for the Republican presidential canadacy. Throw aside the story of a young man who coldly killed 5 innocent shoppers just 2 days ago. Heaven forbid we give a "celebrity" death story some time to rest. It makes me sad that the media beleives that we care more about a woman who had no talent, married an old rich geezer, had battles in a court room over his money, got fat then skinny, had a son die, then died herself a few months later; than we care about what really matters. To this point I have not heard any stories telling us about the lives of those killed in the shootings in Trolley Square, or even those of soldiers who have died for the cause of freedom in Iraq. To the media moguls I say "shame on you" for thinking less of me as a human being. "Shame on you" for doubting my intelligence. And "shame on you" for not informing us about the things that are of real importance.
Maybe I am wrong. Maybe Anna Nicole should be our focus. In my opinion, she did nothing that was worthy of any real merit. I guess she brought some happiness to people who look at porn. She was good for a laugh when "Mad TV" did spoofs of her reality show. Other than that, I can find no reason to glorify her in death. In my mind, she did not leave the world any better than it was when she entered it. I hope that we as people can look past all the garbage pasted on our TV sets and keep sight of what's important. OK, rant over.
Thursday, February 15, 2007
Compiled 2 AM E.T. In This E Mail:
World U.S. Washington Business Technology
Sports Arts New York Region Fashion Style Editorials Op Ed
Customize Today's Headlines Search
TOP STORIES
Advertisement
Bush Declares Iran s Arms Role in Iraq Is Certain
By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and MARC SANTORA
President Bush said he did not know whether Iran s highest officials had directed attacks on U.S. troops.
A Prewar Slide Show Cast Iraq in Rosy Hues
By MICHAEL R. GORDON
Military planners in 2002 assumed that by 2007 as few as 5,000 U.S. troops would be in Iraq, according to documents.
Detroit s Slump Could Break Up Chrysler Group
By MICHELINE MAYNARD
The lesson of this decade for automakers? Better to go it alone than bulk up through mergers and alliances.
NYTimes.com Homepage
Back to Top
QUOTATION OF THE DAY
"Democracy? I would not call the process under way in our country democracy."
VLADIMIR I. FYODOROV, a Communist Party leader in St. Petersburg, on restrictions faced by opposition parties in Russia.
TECHNOLOGY
Video: Voice Mail Solutions
The Times's David Pogue reviews new services that allow you to check your voice mail quickly and easily.
Related Article Talking Points: Helping People Help Themselves
If people don't act in their own best interest, writes Teresa Tritch, should the government intervene?
WORLD
Few Encounters in Sweep of Baghdad, the Americans First Under Bush s
Security Plan
By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. and DAMIEN CAVE
Thousands of American troops in armored Stryker vehicles swarmed through three mostly Shiite neighborhoods of northeastern Baghdad.
Russians to Vote, but Some Parties Lose in Advance
By STEVEN LEE MYERS
Regional elections in March will preview coming national elections in which choices
will be severely limited at best.
Canceled TV Speech Points to Hamas and Fatah Split
By STEVEN ERLANGER
In the speech, the Palestinian Authority s president, Mahmoud Abbas of the Fatah faction, was to have told Palestinians about his talks with Hamas leaders.
More World News
Back to Top
U.S.
An Outsider s Murder Trial Shakes a Southern Town
By ADAM NOSSITER
A Southern town is reliving a winter s day in 2003 when a family s refusal to give up part of their land led to the deaths of two law enforcement officers.
For Liberal Bloggers, Libby Trial Is Fun and Fodder
By SCOTT SHANE
Firedoglake.com has offered intensive trial coverage, using some six contributors in rotation.
Debate Over Children and Psychiatric Drugs
By BENEDICT CAREY
The parents of a 4 year old girl have been charged with poisoning their daughter by giving her overdoses of prescription drugs to sedate her.
More U.S. News
Back to Top
WASHINGTON
nytimes.com dealbook
Who Is Icahn's latest target?
Also in DealBook:
Should you buy when private equity sells? Top bankers jump ship as another stays put Read all DealBook headlines
For Liberal Bloggers, Libby Trial Is Fun and Fodder
By SCOTT SHANE
Firedoglake.com has offered intensive trial coverage, using some six contributors in rotation.
Saying He Was Misled by Defense, Judge in Libby Case Puts Some Evidence Off Limits
By NEIL A. LEWIS
Judge Reggie B. Walton said he believed he had been misled by the defense team about whether I. Lewis Libby Jr. would take the stand in his own defense.
12 Republicans Break Ranks on Iraq Resolution
By JEFF ZELENY
A dozen House Republicans lent their names to a resolution intended to rebuke President Bush for his Iraq policy.
More Washington News
Back to Top
BUSINESS
The Toyota Way Is Translated for a New Generation of Foreign Managers
By MARTIN FACKLER
At the Toyota Institute, promising executives learn some of the most prized management secrets in corporate Japan.
A Push for Dollar Coins, Using Presidential Fervor
By MATTHEW HEALEY
The Mint is encouraging Americans to drop the coins into cash registers, not just collectors' cases.
STATE OF THE ART
Freedom for Prisoners of Voice Mail
By DAVID POGUE
If you re tired of spending time and cellphone minutes listening to the voice mail lady, try new tools that convert voice messages to text and deliver them by e mail.
More Business News
Back to Top
TECHNOLOGY
All the World s a Stage (That Includes the Internet)
By SCOTT KIRSNER
Performers are turning to video sites that share ad revenue or pay by number of viewers.
Q A
Updating Windows Defender
By J. D. BIERSDORFER
When I turn on my computer I receive a message that includes Windows Defender Application failed to initialize. What can I do to fix this error?
As the Dust Bunny Moved, I Drew
By MICHELLE SLATALLA
In a showdown with dog hair, a pet owner turns to the Internet to find the vacuum cleaner that will best get rid of those tumbleweeds of fur.
More Technology News
Back to Top
SPORTS
Uncertain Future Has Rivera Talking
By JACK CURRY
Because of Mariano Rivera s age and the fact that General Manager Brian Cashman is trying to cut the team s payroll, the Yankees want to wait before signing him to an extension.
Bochy Unfazed by Bonds Drama
By LEE JENKINS
For 12 years as the Padres manager, Bruce Bochy had a pretty cushy gig. Now with the Giants, he will deal with topics that include steroids, contract disputes and a home run record.
WARRIORS 120, KNICKS 101
For Knicks, Another Game That Epitomizes Their Season
By HOWARD BECK
The Knicks flashed the resiliency that has kept them afloat and made them intriguing, but only after reminding everyone
of their worst traits in a loss to Golden State.
More Sports News
Back to Top
ARTS
In Old Files, Fading Hopes of Anne Frank s Family
By PATRICIA COHEN
Newly discovered documents reveal the Frank family s desperate efforts in 1941 to get to the U.S. or Cuba.
Has Trumpet, Will Surprise
By BEN RATLIFF
The trumpeter John McNeil is one of the best improvisers working in jazz. But who is he?
Death Propels Anna Nicole Smith Biography From Backlist
By JULIE BOSMAN
For the publisher of Great Big Beautiful Doll, by Eric and D Eva Redding, even Wal Mart is calling.
More Arts News
Back to Top
NEW YORK REGION
In Old Files, Fading Hopes of Anne Frank s Family
By PATRICIA COHEN
Newly discovered documents reveal the Frank family s desperate efforts in 1941 to get to the U.S. or Cuba.
So, Now It s White and Inconvenient Enough to Be a New York Winter
By JAMES BARRON
It
finally snowed Wednesday in a city where people were wondering if they would see much more than another dusting before spring.
As a Way to Pay Victims of 9 11, Insurance Fund Is Problematic
By ANTHONY DePALMA
It may be legally difficult to tap into money that was set aside in an insurance fund to cover New York City against negligence lawsuits related to 9 11.
More New York Region News
Back to Top
FASHION STYLE
Tasty Tastemakers of the Runway
By RUTH LA FERLA
What models wear is noted, copied and may be fashion s next hits.
SKIN DEEP
Should You Trust Your Makeup?
By NATASHA SINGER
Momentum
has been building for greater oversight of the chemicals in everyday products, with Europe and California taking the lead in imposing new rules for monitoring what is in the perfumes, creams, nail polish and hair sprays.
Supercharged With All the Answers
By PATRICIA COHEN
Points of trivia that might arise at dinner or over drinks used to lead to a brain racking long debate. Now, hand held devices help settle disputes. (Look it up!)
More Fashion Style News
Back to Top
EDITORIALS
Not Supporting Our Troops
It is a shame, if not an outright scandal, that American troops will have to wait until the summer for the protective armor that could easily mean the difference between life and death.
Minimum Wage, Minimum Tax Cuts
A bipartisan House bill to raise the
minimum wage while granting modest tax cuts to small businesses is a reasonable response to the Senate s refusal to move forward without tax cuts.
Needed Fixes for No Child Left Behind
No Child Left Behind is unlikely to succeed unless Congress strengthens the law and puts a lot more money behind it.
EDITORIAL OBSERVER
The New Congress Confronts Iraq in 12 Hour Swatches
By FRANCIS X. CLINES
The scene in Congress seems more like a symptom of the disconnect in Washington about the war s tragedy that voters underlined last November, rather than an antidote for it.
More Editorials
Back to Top
OP ED
OP ED COLUMNIST
No Apology Needed
By DAVID BROOKS
Would anybody mind if I pointed out that the calls for Hillary Clinton to apologize for her support of the Iraq war are almost entirely bogus?
OP ED COLUMNIST
For Tavis Smiley, Promises to Keep
By BOB HERBERT
Mr. Smiley has quietly become one of the most effective black leaders in the nation.
OP ED CONTRIBUTOR
Help Not Wanted
By MOIS S NA M
By pushing their alternative development model, wealthy nondemocratic regimes effectively price responsible aid programs out of the market exactly where they are needed most.
Go to Editorials Op Ed
Back to Top
ON THIS
DAY
On Feb. 15, 1898, the U.S. battleship Maine blew up in Havana Harbor, killing 260 crew members and escalating tensions with Spain. See this front page
Buy this front page
Back to Top
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy
InternetElect News. Briefly . InternetElectPress InternetElectVideo InternetElect InterElect
Don't get soaked. Take a quick peak at the forecast
with the Yahoo! Search weather shortcut.
Knesset Members Demand IDF Reopen Joseph s Tomb
By Nissan Ratzlav Katz
35 Knesset Members from various political factions are calling on the IDF to renew civilian access to the tomb of the Biblical Joseph in Shechem.
The site, at which Jews have gathered for prayer over the generations, has been closed to visitors for the past three years due to the dangers posed by Arab terrorists in the region.
In a letter to IDF Central Command Officer Maj. Gen. Yair Naveh, the parliamentarians requested that the military authorities reopen Joseph's Tomb to Jewish visitors, taking whatever steps are necessary to ensure secure access.
The letter, initiated by National Union MK Uri Ariel, was signed by legislators from the United Torah Judaism, Shas, Likud, Kadima, Pensioners and Yisrael Beiteinu parties. All the MKs of the National Union National Religious Party signed the letter, as did MK Moshe Sharoni, chairman of the Pensioners party, most of the Likud MKs, including presidential candidate MK Reuven Rivlin, and United Torah Judaism MKs, and five out of the twelve MKs from Shas.
MK Ariel emphasized that even the Oslo Accords, which turned over civilian and military control of Shechem (Nablus) to the Palestinian Authority, recognized that Joseph's Tomb is a sanctified site for Jews. The agreements included clauses guaranteeing freedom of access and freedom of worship at the tomb. Ariel initiated the letter to Naveh at this time due to the changing of the military command in the Shechem region, which opened the door to a reevaluation of existing policy.
The tomb was first abandoned by IDF forces in 2000, at the order of then Prime Minister Ehud Barak, when it came under intense attack by PA militiamen and police at the start of what became known as the Oslo War. IDF soldier Madhat Yusuf was killed during the PA siege on the compound, slowly bleeding to death while Israeli generals refused to give the order to storm the compound. Upon the Israeli withdrawal, Arabs swarmed the building, destroying or pilfering whatever was to be found there.
In the major counter terrorist military operation dubbed Defensive Shield, in May 2002, IDF forces returned to Shechem and to Joseph's Tomb. The military then organized monthly trips to the tomb, secured by IDF forces. The visits, which were arranged for midnight, regularly drew about 800 people.
The threat of Arab terrorist attacks on Jewish pilgrims to the tomb in the past three years, however, led the local IDF commander to suspend the visits.
This is from NewsMax : Sen. Hillary Clinton, D N.Y., on Thursday called for a rejection of new Palestinian textbooks that portray a world without Israel, refer to Jews as "Zionist gangs" and rewrite the Holocaust to ignore atrocities committed against Jews.
"We must stop the propaganda to which Palestinian children are exposed," Clinton said in a news conference in Washington, D.C. "These children deserve an education that instills respect for life and peace instead of glorifying death and violence."
Clinton, a candidate for the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination, called the conference to release a report by Palestinian Media Watch, a Jerusalem based group that monitors Palestinian media for anti Israel bias. She said the books "do not give Palestinian children an education, they give them an indoctrination."
Do read it all and form your own opinion. To me it seems that she is being very rational here. For the record, in no way does it mean that I want her to be President. But whenever a Democrat sounds rational, it gives me hope, even if they are rational for the wrong reasons. In case of Hillary, she might even believe what she is saying. But I don't think that is the reason why she is saying this. In the last elections 25 of American Jews did vote for Bush. She knows that someone like Giuliani, who is very supportive of Israel and very willing to stand up to Islamo Fascists, can easily take a large enough percentage of Jewish voters away from the Democratic ticket, which will make it impossible for her to win the Presidency. The younger Jews especially likely to look away from the Democratic Party. Add to it the fact that on the average majority of Americans tend to support Israel, and it becomes understandable why Hillary has to sound sane on this issue. At this point there are 3 front runners on the Democratic side: consistently hard Left Obama, flip flopping hard Left Edwards and Hillary. Hillary is the most sane of the three. She is a politician hungry for power. Thus, she can be influenced by public opinion. At the same time, she is not going to flip flop a la Kerry or Edwards: the same public opinion hates that.
Will the next Truman or FDR ever appear on the Democratic side some time in the future?
I have been sitting here thinking about this war in Iraq and have had many thoughts occur to me regarding the whole thing. One of these thoughts is that while some Americans are out there on the frontlines fighting an enemy who knows no bounds, there are a faction of us sitting comfortably, complacently, and spoiled at home here in the U.S., playing "armchair warrior" and "armchair politics." When I think about the people playing armchair warriors and armchair politics I think, "Some people are pathetically unaware of their own intellectual unimportance in this issue and are completely incapable of seeing the "everyone" in this instead of the "me" in this." I am reminded of any tree hugger who has wooden furniture or reads books or magazines. It sounds good to say that "the trees are being killed," and spout off all the statistics about how many trees it took to make Aunt Ruby's diary, (while you are offending the poor woman by assuming she attempted to deliberately offend you please do you really think you're that important? because she just wanted to record her life events, even though you yourself read books, magazine, and have wooden items around your OWN house). And at the same time you are yelling at Aunt Ruby, being extremely environmentally self righteous (there is more than ONE kind of religion), you never practice what you preach, so your words don't hold weight. And no "twisting of do gooder words" will ever change someone's REAL opinion of your actions, that you will now apply political correctness to, to avoid the blame for. (At least on a public, "you're to blame" level. Some people think that if their blame has not been publicly announced that people actually believe they are NOT to blame. Hey the joke's on them. People are actually more intelligent and analytical than some people WANT them to be. Go figure.)
Here's another fine example of idiocy: Environmentalists, who on a majority level proclaim to belong to the Democratic party, think that global warming (whether it exists or not), is more important than keeping the country they live in away from terrorists so that they CAN study global warming. You see terrorists do not admire you for your so called environmental expertise. You are inferior to them as human beings (make no mistake), and they will not CARE if global warming really exists or not, they will just care whether you can be of some personal use to them, either still living or dead. It becomes as simple as that. Did the terrorists on 911 say, "Hey there is an environmentalist in the twin towers today please try to miss hitting them." My point is, where is the urgency here to REALLY "save our planet?"
And regardless of the fact that I lean more towards Pro Life than Pro Choice, I will also point out the idiocy of Pro Lifers who kill numerous people in their attempt to blow up abortion clinics. Aren't you kind of defeating your OWN purpose, and could you possibly consider that you believe in your own rhetoric so much that it has made you insane? Let us take an example from the Pro Lifers who have bombed abortion clinics: I have seen many people, especially in the last presidential election or two absolutely DEMAND that things turn out their way, despite the fact that they have not. These people absolutely won't accept that "their way" hasn't been gotten. Does that give anyone an idea of how utterly spoiled and self centered the people in this country can be? Let's face it, in a country of this many people, compromise cannot be reached when everyone who lives in it believes that they, personally, should have everything done "their way." Especially because "their way" is in conflict with someone ELSE'S "way." Here's one of my favorite quotes: "Lord Ronald said nothing. He flung himself from the room, flung himself upon his horse, and rode madly off in all directions." (Stephen Leacock.) Is there genius and yes "peace" in waiting your turn? Yes, and it's been working for the United States for 231 years.
On a smaller, personal scale (but still important when one wants to see how the people in this country can act sometimes), my husband and I went to buy a mini van at a local car dealership about three years ago. While there and waiting on the dealership steps to see this mini van we eventually bought, a young woman of about 20 23 years of age walked past us, her tired and haggard looking salesperson trailing behind her. In passing me, I heard the woman say to the car salesman, "I'm JUST not good at waiting for things." Since this had been the THIRD TIME that the dealer had attempted to get the woman approved for a car loan to buy the lovely Ford Mustang she just "couldn't do without," even if she couldn't AFFORD it, I was immediately glad that I didn't know her personally. I am all for differences in personalities with human beings, how could it be missed? But when those personalities start stepping on the sane patience of other human beings and the person has absolutely no intention of being even marginally reasonable in the face of cold, hard facts, what's the point of continuing the relationship? It's only a one WAY relationship and no amount of placating is going to get the job done. (Or make the young woman be able to afford the beautiful yellow Mustang she was DEMANDING she be allowed to buy, before her econimical time.) I stood there on the showfloor of the dealership that day, admiring a beautiful black and red T Bird, but did I buy it? No first of all because with my circumstances it was not practical and second of all because I could not afford it. I accepted that and moved on. I was perfectly understanding of the fact that I could not afford that T Bird and I wasn't going to make the car salesman have a stroke trying to make my own personal financial circumstances any different for me, because I was logical enough to understand that he, being a stranger and not me, had no jurisdicition over my personal financial status or my personal circumstances.
My point being that is there ANY way for the people in this country to pull their heads out of their selfish, "I want" butts long enough to make sure they even still have the LUXURY of being selfish in the FUTURE? I really hate to put it this way, but frankly, from what I've seen in the last 20 years or so, I think putting it that way is the only way to reach some people.
I mean, really, who amongst us average American citizens really knows what U.S. military intelligence knows, what is REALLY going on in Iraq on a daily basis (except the horrors we are selectively told on our news programs, of course), and why do we dare to assume that we DO know all the particulars when we are sitting in our comfortable easy chairs, watching the "positively no bias" nightly news? Even if you have doubts about the military strategies in Iraq, do you think there's a SMALL possibility even that you "may be wrong?" And would you rather be wrong and strong, or wrong and weak? Well, I'll tell you what the terrorists would like you to be: wrong and weak. In my mind, playing armchair warrior and armchair politics is like sitting at a baseball game in the stands and pretending like we know when the batter should swing. We do not trust the batter to do his job, no matter how far removed we are from the playing field, and feel that we have a right to get in on the "play" because somehow we want to take credit, in some selfish "don't know anything about it" fashion, for the "game play." We think we have a better idea. Another example would be a bridge building expert who is forcefully inundated by 25 other people's ideas of how they should build a bridge when they have absolutely no idea of how to build one in the first place. Which bridge builder would you trust? The one who knows what they are doing or the ones who only THINK they know what they're doing? Now remember, you have to drive OVER this bridge when the bridge is completed. Your children or other loved ones will be in the car with you when you drive over this bridge. Still willing to allow the armchair bridge builder to build that bridge?
All I hear about is the cost of the Iraq war. Well, let me think: are there any possible costs to NOT conducting the Iraq war? Do I need to point them out? Perhaps I do: First, there is the cost of allowing a terrorist bully regime who has no further interest than to take over our country (if they could manage to), and then take YOU over. Willing to let that happen? Are these so called "armchair experts" all going to shut up now about what they think they personally know about a terrorist regime and whether they can be talked to, to achieve a "peaceful agreement" with them? And if a "peaceful agreement" could be reached, what would the terrorists say they want this "peaceful agreement" to do for them? Would they like us to hand ourselves over to them? The only "agreement" that I can see the terrorists would want is "I want to take over the world and I want you to agree to let me do that." Let's see: On September 11, 2001, did the terrorists stop to talk to the United States and reach a "peaceful agreement" before they decided to terrorize our country and kill about 3,000 of our people? And make no mistake about it they were OUR people our loved ones, our family members, our friends, our "FELLOW AMERICANS" and there are people in this country who are willing to forget that and possibly let it happen again? Why? Because it wasn't YOU or anyone you KNEW in the twin towers? Well, I didn't know anyone in the twin towers, either, but yes they WERE "MY PEOPLE." And they were "MY PEOPLE" who did NOTHING to these terrorists. Think it can't happen to YOU? Just glad YOUR precious butt was saved that time? Then you are extremely arrogant and delusional. On 911, did the terrorists say, "Hey we had better talk to the president of the United States before we hijack these airplanes and fly them into the twin towers because we don't want to tick off the Americans and want to see if there is a more peaceful way to do this?" (And by the way, "peaceful" is NOT in their vocabulary, Mr. and Ms. Democrat strutting around in Congress.) NO. The terrorists did not consider "peaceful means" on 911, because they are not "peaceful people." Get the MESSAGE? It's pretty loud and clear. And do we still not believe this "non peaceful" message after 911? Why? Do you think that people who have said something (in this case, the terrorists on 911), don't actually MEAN what they SAY? That their ideas and thoughts can be manipulated and persuaded and changed by YOU and that you can win them over to YOUR way of THINKING? How arrogant are some people in this country? Do they think they could have actually stopped 911 from happening while the planes were being flown towards the twin towers because they are extremely diplomatic and influential PEOPLE? Well, no perhaps it was too late for arrogant egos to be applied in that case. What about the next case, if one does occur? Are the terrorists going to inform all the diplomatic and influential arrogant people in this country who believe they can "peacefully talk" to a terrorist to change their viewpoint, before striking again? Well, let's see: is there really a chance for ego mania on the part of the "victim" on a one arrogant person level to work, during a terrorist war?
Here is another misnomer that has been extremely obvious to me during this whole terrorist Iraq war thing: That this is, indeed a "religious war." Do you REALLY think so? Even if you scale this down to the most basic of motives? You see when I scale this down to the most basic of human motives (the terrorist's acts), I do not think it is a "religious war" it is a war for POWER (notice that word? POWER?), that is being waged with "religion" as a false front. And these terrorists are trying to get power for one of two reasons: either because they are arrogant enough to think that everyone was put on this earth to "worship them" (in a religious "act" shouldn't that be GOD they worship and not HUMANS?), or that they are so emotionally and mentally immature that they honestly are capable of believing that unless everyone in the world is like them, they will feel inferior. YES inferior. And who thinks they are "inferior" more than they themselves think they are inferior? They would not be waging this war if they DIDN'T think they were "inferior." So whose fault is it that they think they're inferior? Except that they have gained world "renown" for their "tactics", are they REALLY any different from the bully at school (or at work), who tries to throw their weight around because they feel inferior and they think that trying to hold down a "victim" and try to take their victim's personal power away from them will make them seem LESS inferior? Make no mistake about this, either: "war" or "agression" in any form, is begun in the mind of a person who feels "inferior" and it more often than not stems from one person's psyche who tries to recruit other people's psyches into following a well insane psyche. And I will also say here that it is NOT the "victim's" responsibility in ANY way to placate the bully's psychotic psyche because it is the BULLY'S problem in the FIRST place. The victim did not create the problem and therefore is NOT responsible for the violent "act." That is as lame as saying that a woman who has been raped is at fault for the rape because she did not attempt to change the psyche of the guy who raped her, whom she didn't know before the rape took place. And anyone who believes that a victim is responsible for a violent act, is bordering on insane and most likely needs to rethink their notions and possibily see a psychiatrist for their problem. (I would highly recommend it, at any rate.)
What I believe a lot of people in this country are doing, is judging these terrorists by American standards. So here's the blatant problem: Terrorists do not think like the average American citizen. If we want to be reminded of the ways in which terrorists do not think like average American citizens, we need only to remember our innocent and naive complacency about airline security, lack of border patrols, and foreign visas to realize that the terrorists took advantage of our "nice nice policies" and used them against us. THEY WILL DO SO AGAIN. ANY QUESTIONS? So why does even one person in this country still believe that there is a peaceable way to deal with these people? If these people had intended on being nice and "talking things out", they would not be called TERRORISTS they would be called "peace ists" or "nice ists." Please let's not distort the English language at a time like this, nor stupidly assume that all terrorists are the way they are because they had bad childhoods and if we only just understood them and talked nice to them, they would stop doing this. Because if you believe that's possible, then they will be perfectly happy to use your personality against you. If we want utopia, we should get off the planet. Mars is pretty empty, I hear.
So how willing are you to put your children's and other loved one's lives in the hands of a terrorist?
Let's see: we now have a Democrat majority congress telling us that despite the fact that our soldiers are over in Iraq fighting against these terrorists (who by the way have STILL showed no signs of being diplomatic give me a break), we aren't going to send in any more troops to cover the backs of the very people who are attempting to protect us during a military strategic sweep that is PROVING to be effective, but is also the most dangerous part of the strategy. These soldiers are AMERICANS. They are YOUR people. They are fighting RISKING THEIR LIVES (you strutting peacocks in Congress!), to save YOUR life and PROTECT you! Now I will utter the word "traitor." What is a traitor? It is a person who sells their own country out for their own selfish purposes or gain. Is there any Democrat in congress right now who thinks they know how to protect this country any better than Bush and the soldiers in Iraq? Where's your plan to keep these terrorists away from our doors, our children, our families, our friends (I haven't heard any proposals about that), and is there any Congressperson who also doesn't understand the meaning of the word "traitor?" No I'm sure the Democrats who are strutting around in congress understand the meaning of the word "traitor" they just don't think it applies to them. Well, you see labels such as the word "traitor" come about because of someone's actions and the label is not absolved because someone who acted like a traitor has said they are NOT a traitor. And those of us Americans who perfectly understand what a "traitor" is, will have no trouble understanding which spades are spades. If you still don't get this, please move to a different, visual frame of mind here: you are standing on your front lawn with your parents and other relatives, saying "goodbye" to them after a family birthday party you hosted at your house. All of a sudden, 6 terrorists with guns walk up to you, your family and relatives, and point their guns at you and start killing everyone you love that is there, right in front of your very eyes. Do we REALLY need the "disgusting visuals" in order to understand this? If you need further disgusting visuals, please review the tapes of the airplanes being flown into the twin towers on 911. Think my "Front lawn family birthday party massacre" is ridiculous? Well, would you have also thought that 911 was possible before it happened? Were you surprised, outraged, scared when it occurred? And what about the terrorists acts on other countries since 911 by this same terrorist faction that strutting peacocks in Congress now want you to believe are "harmless?" I have heard many Democrats, since 911, (and most of them from Hollywood who have the LUXURY of moving elsewhere), proclaim that the United States is arrogant and doesn't understand other countries. Who are more arrogant? The American people who were attacked (not to mention the people in other countries who have now been attacked by these same terrorists), or the terrorists who killed them? (Or perhaps the people in Hollywood or the music industry are the most arrogant?) So we are now being told that us Americans, us VICTIMS (the left likes that term, too, so I will use it against them since in my opinion they are the ones who are being stupid here right now), are arrogant because we were attacked, thousands of our people were killed for NO reason, and that it's "our fault." What are they afraid of? You have to wonder.
If the people in Congress who are throwing their weight around to stop this military strategy in Iraq have a better idea on how to keep the terrorists away from your children, your families, and your friends I have yet to hear it. Therefore, they seem like "armchair warriors" to me at best. At worst, they are the definition of yes pontificating, peacock traitors who understand how to go to the bathroom, but have absolutely no idea how to wipe their butts.
I am so tired of both political parties arguing to the point where even families and friends are arguing. It is ridiculous. When your political beliefs start coming in between your friendships, your family relationships, etc., to me you have forgotten about what is REALLY important in life AND this country, and it has come to the point where your politics are extremely fanatical and are flying in the face of everything in life that is good, or that has meaning, or that will sustain you THROUGH this life. Do you REALLY think some strutting peacock in Congress (or the White House) whom you voted for will be your "personal savior" if you only just vote for them and they win? Are they going to come hold your hand or be supportive of you when you have cancer or you're grieving because your mother died? Please don't misunderstand what a politician is and should be, and what they are not and please, for your own sake, do not offend your friends and family members by supposing that your political beliefs are so important to you that it is worth alientating them from your life because of it. Will your political beliefs love you? Will they comfort you when you are ill or grieving? Are they REALLY as important as the people you know and the people in this country? On a larger scale, political people prancing around like smug peacocks and throwing their WEIGHT around when something as important as terrorism needs to be dealt with in SOME final fashion, is frivoulousness of the worst sort. It screams "ME" instead of "EVERYONE." And just because the majority of us DO understand how arrogant politicians are, does NOT mean that blindly accepting that arrogance is good for us OR our country. For those people in Congress who still want to keep their power and the ability to "prance and throw their weight around", I have a sad message for you: do you think that terrorists will CARE what kind of power you want for yourself? Hey Congresspeople please be aware of what is at stake if you DO ignore the terrorists: you might have no possible WAY to get elected, feel like a peacock, and smug as a fox in the henhouse if you do NOT do something about terrorists or let the people who actually know HOW to fight a war, do their job....And make no mistake it IS "War." The terrorists you pretend you want to "talk to" (is that your plan?), let you know in the most blatant of ways possible on 9 11 01 that talking is not one of their "strategies." Now you Congresspeople are acting like you are just glad that YOU didn't die in the twin towers. You are SELFISH, you arrogant so called protectors of the people! Think 911 can't happen again, Congresspeople? Well, I will not vote for a naive politician on THIS issue. This country can't afford "naive" anymore. It also can't afford "selfish." What it needs to have are not political parties, but PEOPLE, who come together "for the greater good of the country," where they have put ASIDE their differences and their SELFISH need for personal recognition and votes. If you so deem that pontificating, looking like a "great influential intellectual" and "getting your own way" is THAT important, you can do that LATER. Understand that, Congresspeople? You know the more this goes on, the more I am reminded of two factions of children arguing on a school playground. Children are naive or inexperienced enough to think that playground politics are important so in some ways we allow for those differences up to a certain point: Congresspeople are supposed to be older than that. Who are we REALLY putting our safety in the hands of when we vote? And if you are not sure of that, you should be.
I have another description of the strutting peacocks in Congress: Ineffective, selfish, self important, self serving and they want you to VOTE for them? You talk about getting sold a bill of goods through the manipulation of the English language: Smoke and mirrors doesn't even BEGIN to cover it. Just listen to a politician when they are either trying to get out of trouble (Bill Clinton comes to mind), or they want you to vote for them. "The politician poses as the servant in order to become the master." Never forget it. And even then, we will have no "Master" to vote for, if the people who hate our country are not dealt with in the proper way. Any questions?
The War of the Persian Succession: Rafsanjani and Ahmadinejad are posturing to succeed an ailing Khamenei By Michael Ledeen
http: www.JewishWorldReview.com The War of the Persian Succession is on, as Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei s worsening condition becomes an open secret. His bad health is discussed in the Iranian press, and in the last week the former president and the supporters of potential successors have begun literally and figuratively fighting each other all over the country.
The two main contenders are former President Hashemi Rafsanjani and current President Ahmadinejad, who you can be quite sure were included in the devastating American accusation against Iran s highest leadership : the top mullahs are directly involved in training and arming terrorists in Iraq with extraordinarily powerful shaped explosives, in order to kill American troops there.
The succession crisis was already clear some weeks ago. In late January, an open letter to Ahmadinejad attacked Rafsanjani s people without naming him, but its reference is clear enough as arrogantly consider(ing) themselves the sole saviors of the nation s problems, and trying to sabotage the country s nuclear programs. The letter, written by a former presidential adviser, urged Ahmadinejad to take Rafsanjani to court.
The Rafsanjani crowd struck back: ...these days due to the continued aggression of the Islamic Republic with the world powers, the pressure on Iran s economy increases...Mr. President...you only disempower yourself and your position.
Rafsanjani has taken extraordinary steps in recent days in an attempt to ensure he will be the next Supreme Leader, despite his lack of standing in the religious community. He went to the holy city of Qom and met with seventeen grand ayatollahs, to whom he said, we can t wait for Khamenei to die before choosing his successor. We have to do it right away. Rafsanjani heads the Committee of Experts that chooses the Supreme Leader, so his pilgrimage to Qom was a preemptive strike to obtain approval for his next move, which is undoubtedly to elect himself. This was confirmed by an equally remarkable appearance on national television on Saturday, in which he did two important things:
First, he reflected on his deep religious vocation, clearly an effort to reinforce his credentials with the mullahcracy;
Second, he mused on the days when he was an aide to the Ayatollah Khomeini, the iconic founder of the Islamic Republic. He recalled that Khomeini had appointed Bani Sadr as president, which Rafsanjani thought was a mistake, and so he told Khomeini. The Ayatollah flew into a rage, but within a year he recognized that Rafsanjani was right, and fired Bani Sadr. This little historical digression was evidently done to compare Khomeini s mistake with the decision to make Ahmadinejad president, as well as to magnify Rafsanjani s image as a wise political leader;
While all this was going on, Rafsanjani s supporters were openly speaking of his enormous security risk, hinting that the Ahmadinejad forces might elect to physically attack their main opponent. Rafsanjani certainly should fear such action; the Basij and the Revolutionary Guards are not likely to sit out the coup that is so clearly under way. There is certainly no lack of physical violence in the streets of Iran these days. According to Iran Press News, recent fighting in Isfahan Province yielded at least ten fatalities among the regime s guards and the Basij, thirteen wounded among government ranks, and four drug smugglers were killed. And there are numerous reports of armed conflict in Khuzestan where the regime continues to hang Ahwazi Arab dissidents at a horrific rate and in Belouchi areas, where the repression has intensified in recent months.
As the power vacuum at the top of the regime becomes more palpable, the mullahs are striking wildly at any potential opposition, from intellectuals and human rights activists to the favored victims of Islamic repression, the country s women. ISNA, the official news agency, last week quoted a paramilitary commander in Isfahan, who threatened all female employees who are not properly veiled. He lamented that, although the rules are clear, some women do not observe these guidelines in governmental offices, so if these women do not want to observe the rules, they will be reported to the court... It was an open call for vigilantism. We have confronted those cars whose drivers dared to play harsh music; we have also destroyed satellite dishes and dealt with replacing (get this!) the inappropriate mannequins in shops and store windows as well.
The mullahs are living through difficult times. Their murderous activities in Iraq are now clear, save to those who are grimly determined to believe that the Bush administration cannot possibly tell the truth about terrorism. They have wrecked their national economy (like the Soviet Union, they do not need Western sanctions to ruin the country; they are quite capable of doing it all by themselves). The nuclear breakthrough is constantly promised but never delivered Ahmadinejad had promised a glorious announcement on Sunday, but then said he would postpone the great moment for a couple of months, pending the action of the United Nations. They are scrambling to buy more time and fighting amongst themselves over how to deal with the West and the successor to the dying leader.
To buy time, they are proposing everything and its opposite. They whisper to American diplomats who then promptly inform the Washington Post , afflicted with grave credibility problems of its own that they are prepared to deliver al Qaeda terrorists into our hands, if only we will be kinder. I have lost count of the number of times this empty promise has been trotted out (this regime could no more abandon al Qaeda than it could abandon Shiism; terrorism is too deeply embedded in its DNA). For many days, Tehran approved, then canceled, then promised, then canceled, then finally approved the visit of the country s top nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, to a security conference in Munich, where, according to the wire services, he assured his audience that Israel had nothing to fear from Iran. But when the printed text was released, there were no such words in it, in either the Farsi or the English version. The manifest incoherence reflects the leadership vacuum, and the on again off again behavior of Larijani shows the ebb and flow of the Succession War.
The gravity of the moment is perhaps best demonstrated by the reemergence of the country s aged dissident ayatollah, 85 year old Hosseynali Montazeri. One of Khomeini s closest allies, and long presumed the logical successor to the founding fanatic, Montazeri was locked into his home for seven years because of his increasingly vigorous opposition to the Islamic Republic. Twice in the past two weeks he has denounced Ahmadinejad and called for the release of political prisoners and open political competition. Is it not better to avoid extremism and open the political space? he asked. Unfortunately, there are still academics, students, intellectuals and ordinary people jailed for false or political reasons. The wise thing to do is to release them.
It is a fascinating moment, and, as several times in the past, it provides an opportunity for the West to encourage the best solution to the Iranian threat: support for democratic change. If we were to echo Montazeri, denounce the mounting repression, support a peaceful transition to democracy, and demand an end to Iran s decisive support for the terror war, all the while clearly stating our desire for regime change in Tehran, the tens of millions of Iranians who hate this regime might seize the opportuni ty. Alas, we are unprepared for this moment, having utterly failed to lay the groundwork for effective support for democratic revolution. But, providentially, opportunity now knocks once again.
Faster, Please.
I found this article in the Washingto Post titled "Black Like Me". I was nodding my head in agreement throughout this article.
Black Like Me?
Those Asking if Barack Obama Is 'Black Enough' Are Asking the Wrong Question
By Marjorie Valbrun
Friday, February 16, 2007; Page A23
What does it mean to be black, and who is the arbiter of authentic blackness? As Sen. Barack Obama's "blackness" has increasingly been discussed on black oriented radio shows, at political conferences and on Sunday morning news shows, I've grown more dismayed by the day.
The discourse, occurring mostly among black people, has been dominated by questions about Obama's being biracial, his immigrant father and his suitability as a presidential candidate, given that his life story doesn't parallel that of most blacks born in the United States. Some have implied that only a black candidate whose ancestors were slaves here or who have themselves experienced the trauma of this country's racial history can truly understand what it means to be black in America and represent the political interests of black Americans.
This is a narrow minded and divisive notion. At a time when blacks living in this country, whether by birth or by choice, should be harnessing their collective political clout to empower all black people, we're wasting time debating which of us are truly black.
