   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for the conference report on legislation creating a Director of National Intelligence. Before doing so, I commend the tremendous effort made by Senator Susan Collins, the chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee, and Senator Joe Lieberman, the ranking member, who have dedicated the last few months to ensuring this legislation was passed. I salute them. 
   Passage of this legislation ensures that many of the key recommendations of the 9/11 Commission become law. Most important of these are the establishment of a Director of National Intelligence, DNI, and a National counterterrorism Center, NCTC. 
   However, much still remains to be done. I continue to believe that the key to a stronger America lies not just in clarifying institutional lines of authority but in ensuring that we have the best and brightest on the front lines of our national defense. 
   One of the important objectives driven home by the 9/11 Commission's report and in testimony before the Governmental Affairs Committee is the need to have the right people in the right places in our Government, both civilian employees and military personnel, to combat future threats. We must ensure that our Federal workforce remains trained and ready to respond to the challenges we may face in the future, just as Federal employees have responded with courage when called upon in the past. 
   There is a human capital crisis in the Federal Government. Not only are we losing decades of talent as civil servants retire, we are not doing enough to develop and nurture the next generation of public servants. Nowhere is this more evident than in our intelligence services. Time and time again senior officials note the lack of trained linguists, the lack of trained analysts to evaluate information, and the lack of scientific technical expertise needed to confront these new threats. 
   Staffing new interagency intelligence operations centers on a 24/7 basis, developing new human intelligence, HUMINT, operations and interpreting the information coming into our intelligence analysts pose management problems of massive proportions. We continue to be seriously understaffed. I have been calling attention to this problem, along with my colleague, Senator Voinovich, for a number of years. 
   Thus, I am pleased that the legislation we vote on today contains provisions similar to those in S. 589, the Homeland Security Federal Workforce Act, which I introduced and was passed by the Senate last November. 
   The National Intelligence Reform Act mirrors the intent of S. 589 by establishing a program awarding scholarships to students in exchange for government service in the intelligence community. I would like to reiterate that the language in the Governmental Affairs Committee report relating to this provision and urge the DNI to give special consideration to applicants seeking degrees in foreign languages, science, mathematics, or a combination of these subjects. 
   S. 2845 includes other aspects of S. 589, such as an incentivized rotational program for employees in the intelligence community in order to break down cultural and artificial barriers to information sharing, build a cadre of highly knowledgeable professionals, and ensure cooperation among national security agencies. 
   In addition, the conference report includes language offered by 
   Senator Bob Graham and Senator Richard Durbin, and myself requiring the Director of National Intelligence to review existing programs to increase the number of personnel with science, math, and foreign language skills and report to Congress on the proposals to improve the education of such individuals if existing programs are found inadequate. 
   These programs partially address, however, a larger national problem in our educational system that must be tackled, including at the primary and secondary level. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the next Congress to implement additional programs to solve the human capital crisis in our national security community as well as elsewhere in the government. 
   In addition, I am pleased that the legislation includes language creating an Office of Geospatial Management in the Department of Homeland Security, which was added to S. 2845, the Senate version of the bill, through an amendment offered by Senator Allard and myself. This language is identical to S. 1230, the Homeland Security Geographic Information Act. It will help to better coordinate the procurement and management of geospatial information within the Department of Homeland Security and centralize activities within one office. Geospatial information has become a critical component in both assisting our war fighters and in protecting our homeland. 
   However, I would be remiss not to mention areas that are not included in the legislation. 
   I regret that the conference report did not include a Senate amendment I sponsored with Senator Fitzgerald to create a chief financial officer, CFO, within the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Our amendment would have placed the NIA under the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990, which requires agencies to submit audited financial statements and requires that CFOs be appointed by the President, confirmed by the Senate, and report directly to an agency's head. This amendment is similar to legislation Senator Fitzgerald and I sponsored now Public Law 108-330--which brings the Department of Homeland Security, DHS, under the CFO Act and ensures a Senate-confirmed CFO who reports directly to the Director of DHS. I plan to introduce legislation that embodies our amendment because I strongly believe that this new entity must have the financial management systems and practices in place to provide meaningful and timely information needed for effective and efficient management decisionmaking. 
   It would be naive to say that this legislation by itself will make America stronger. Americans will make America stronger. What this legislation does offer is a framework within which we can build a more secure nation if we all work together within the limits of our Constitution. 
   In creating a Director of National Intelligence it is critical that the President pledge to make this office accountable to the American people. The DNI must be kept free of political pressures and independent of partisan policy agendas. While employees working  under the DNI will have the same rights and protections as those at the CIA, I urge the DNI to make every effort to ensure that whistleblowers are not retaliated against and that their disclosures, which may have a significant impact on the security of this nation, are taken seriously. 
   The DNI must make civil liberties and privacy rights a capstone in the structure of this new agency. Without these basic protections, our freedoms will not be strengthened, our Nation will not be more secure. 
   I pledge to do all I can to exercise my responsibility to oversee this new intelligence agency and ensure it lives up to the trust being placed in it by the Congress today. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, last Friday, December 3, 2004, Secretary of Health and Human Services Tommy Thompson, in his resignation speech, stated, ``For the life of me, I cannot understand why the terrorists have not attacked our food supply because it is so easy to do so.'' These are strong words coming from the man charged with protecting the Nation's food supply. Yet this sort of warning is not news to those of us who follow this issue. 
   The security of our Nation's food supply is of great concern to me. Over the past year, the United States has been reminded repeatedly of the vulnerable nature of the American agriculture system and the ease with which terrorists could manipulate that vulnerability. In 2003, mad cow disease surfaced for the first time in Washington State and various strains of the avian influenza began cropping up across Asia and in the United States. I have come to the floor repeatedly over the past few years to call attention to this growing problem. I also introduced legislation to strengthen prevention and response efforts as early as 2002. 
   At a November 2003 Governmental Affairs Committee hearing, ``Agroterrorism: The Threat to America's Breadbasket,'' Dr. Peter Chalk, a RAND policy analyst, testified that an attack on American livestock could be extremely attractive to a terrorist for the following four reasons: one, a low level of technology is needed to do considerable damage; two, at least 15 pathogens have the capability of severely harming the agriculture industry; three, a terrorist would not need to be at great personal risk in order to carry out a successful attack; and four, a disease could spread quickly throughout a city, State, or even the country. 
   Dr. Tom McGinn, formerly of the North Carolina Department of Agriculture, demonstrated a computer-simulated attack of foot-and-mouth, or FMD, disease at our hearing where FMD was introduced in five States. According to Dr. McGinn's simulation, after five days 23 States would be infected; after 30 days 40 States would be infected. In this scenario, it would be likely that the disease would not be detected until the fifth day and a national order to stop the interstate movement of livestock would take place a few days later. Using Dr. McGinn's assumptions, over 23 million animals would die from illness or need to be destroyed. It is horrifying that such a massive blow could strike one of the United States' largest markets by simply coordinating the infection of five animals. 
   As a senior member of the Governmental Affairs Committee, one of my greatest concerns is the lack of governmental organization--Federal, State, and local--to address this problem. Over 30 Federal agencies have jurisdiction over some part of the response process in the event of a breach of agricultural security. 
   In a report on the country's preparedness for responding to animal-bourne diseases issued in August 2003, Trust for America's Health, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization founded to raise the profile of public health issues, stated:  
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to join my colleagues in saying thank you to a great senator, a great American, a wonderful leader, and a dear friend, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota. In Hawaiian we say, mahalo nui loa. ``Mahalo'' means thank you; ``nui'' means large; and ``loa'' means wide. It is used to convey profound and deep gratitude. I want to say mahalo nui loa to Tom Daschle for his great service to our country and to the Senate as an institution. 
   During his 26 years in the House and Senate, Tom Daschle has epitomized the ideal that we can disagree without being disagreeable. His prairie optimism and can-do attitude served his constituents well and served our Democratic caucus well. 
   I have always marveled at the fact that despite his responsibilities as majority leader and Democratic Leader, Tom Daschle always kept the needs and interests of South Dakotans as his top priority. He never lost sight of the people back home. Perhaps that is best reflected by his annual ``unscheduled driving'' tour, when he drives across his home state, visiting every county, with no staff and no schedule, just Tom, stopping to visit his constituents and hear what is on their minds. 
   As Senator Daschle has said, these visits remind him of where he came from, and why he came to Washington--to put the priorities of America first. For that, and for so much more, I say mahalo nui loa, Tom Daschle. Godspeed. God bless Tom and his wife Linda. 
   This comes from me and my wife Millie. Aloha. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, the World War II war against Japan has been described in John Dower's book ``War Without Mercy'' as the most savage, bitterly fought racial war in history. Caught in between this epic struggle as innocent victims were the Nisei, American citizens of Japanese ancestry, who were neither accepted nor trusted by both America and Japan. The widespread question and doubt as to their loyalty to America extended to grave uncertainty of whether the Nisei would be willing to fight against an enemy of their same ancestry. This calls for the telling of the little-known story that there were over 6,000 Nisei who more than willingly and resolutely fought against the Japanese enemy during World War II as military intelligence linguists serving in the American and Allied forces. Briefly, this is that story. 
   As the probability of war against Japan mounted in the summer of 1941, the U.S. War Department realized its deficiencies in the intelligence operations against Japan. The Military Intelligence Service Language School, MISLS, was hastily authorized and created to train linguists skilled in interpretation, translation and interrogation in the Japanese language, established at the Fourth Army Intelligence School located at Crissey Field, Presidio of San Francisco. With a meager budget of $2,000 and an initial enrollment of 60 students, the first classes commenced their studies of military Japanese on November 1, 1941, a scant 5 weeks before the Pearl Harbor attack by Japan. After a grueling 6 months of training, only 45 of the initial enrollment of 60 students survived to graduate in May 1942, 35 of whom were immediately assigned and deployed out to the Alaskan and Guadalcanal campaigns. 
   From the outset the Army recognized that the American Nisei possessed the best qualifications, competence and potential for Japanese intelligence specialist training, yet harbored grave doubts about the Nisei's loyalty to America. Soon news came back from the field of vast sources of new Japanese intelligence uncovered by a pioneer linguist team lead by Captain John Burden of Hawaii in the battle of Guadalcanal, and field commanders began flooding the MISLS with demands for more Nisei linguists. The need to meet this surging demand for Japanese language linguists led the MISLS in December 1942 to recruit 58 Nisei from the 100th Battalion then training at Camp McCoy, Wisconsin, to secure the transfer of 250 Nisei from the 442nd Regimental Combat Team, RCT, at Camp Shelby, Mississippi, to scour the 10 relocation camps to recruit MIS students from behind their barbed wire enclosures, and to conduct two recruiting trips to Hawaii in June 1943 and February 1944 to enlist over 500 Hawaii Nisei for intelligence training at MISLS. 
   With the forced evacuation of 110,000 Japanese from the West Coast under Executive Order 9066 in the spring of 1942, the MISLS was transferred to Camp Savage, Minnesota where it continued to recruit, train and graduate successive classes of Japanese linguist specialists at roughly six month intervals totaling some 1,600 graduates. The ever-increasing enrollment overtaxed the facilities at Camp Savage forcing the MISLS to move to larger facilities at nearby Fort Snelling in the spring of 1944. Here, classes training WAC students, oral language training and occupation civil affairs administration were added to the curriculum. By V-J Day in August 1945, 10 classes had been trained and graduated from MISLS at Camp Savage and Fort Snelling and another 3,000 students were enrolled and learning Japanese at the Snelling facilities at that time. In all, during its history MISLS trained and graduated 6,000 students for combat and occupational duty against Japan in World  War II. In June 1946, MISLS was then moved to the Presidio at Monterey, California and was renamed the Defense Language Institute where it teaches over 25 languages in the military intelligence field. 
   MISLS graduates served in every combat theater and engaged in every major battle fought against Japan during World War II. Nisei linguists were assigned to and served with the United States Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force, as well as with British, Australian, New Zealand, Canadian, Chinese, and Indian combat units fighting on all fronts against the Japanese. Trained for duties as interrogators, interpreters and translators, cave flushers, radio interceptors, radio announcers and propaganda writers, the MIS graduates served as ``the intelligence eyes and ears'' of American and Allied Forces in the war against Japan. The Nisei linguists were sent out to serve in every battle front where war was being waged against the Japanese enemy. 
   South Pacific Command: Commencing in May 1942 Nisei linguist teams were sent out from Admiral Halsey's command headquarters in New Caledonia to participate in the battle for Guadalcanal where Japan suffered its first defeat, in the invasion of New Georgia and Bougainville and in the encirclement and cut off of Rabaul, New Britain to neutralize Japan's main Pacific stronghold. In April 1943, linguist Harold Fudenna intercepted and translated a Japanese radio message which outlined the schedule of Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto's inspection trip to Bougainville. American P-38 fighters flown out of Guadalcanal intercepted and shot down Yamamoto's plane over Bougainville. General McArthur described this incident as ``one of the singularly most significant actions of the Pacific War.'' 
   Southwest Pacific Command: In July 1942 General McArthur established the Allied Translator and Interpreter Section, ATIS, of his Intelligence Division in Melbourne, Australia to become the largest military intelligence center to wage the tactical war against Japan. Throughout its history over 3,000 Nisei linguists served with ATIS, translating over 350,000 captured Japanese documents and interrogating more than 10,000 Japanese POWs. Nisei language teams were assigned to and participated in the two-year campaign of jungle warfare along the east and northern coast of New Guinea and Borneo, invading and defeating Japanese defenses along the way. The Nisei were part of the invasion of the Philippines in October 1944 where General McArthur made his triumphal ``I have returned'' landing at Leyte. In March 1944, the ``Z'' Plan containing Japan's total defense strategy for the Western Pacific fell into American hands following the fatal crash of Admiral Koga in the Philippines. The document was rushed to ATIS in Australia where two Nisei, Yoshikazu Yamada and George ``Sankey'' Yamashiro, translated the ``Z'' Plan, and copies were distributed to every command in the U.S. Navy. 
   When the invasion of the Marianas Islands began in June 1944, the counterattacking Japanese aircraft were virtually wiped out by U.S. Navy carrier planes in ``The Great Marianas Turkey Shoot'' by virtue of the prior knowledge of Japanese strategy contained in the ``Z'' Plan. 
   Southeast Asia Command. (CBI Theater): Nisei linguists joined British, Indian, Chinese and U.S. forces in the China-Burma-India Theater to drive Japanese invaders out 
   of Burma and to reestablish the Burma Road supply lines to China. They were part of the two ground forces in Burma, the Merrill's Marauders and Mars Task Force, performed guerrilla tactics behind the enemy lines with the OSS Detachment 101, provided radio intercept work for the 10th Army Air force, manned the Southeast Asia Translator & Interrogation Center, SEATIC, in New Delhi, India, made propaganda broadcasts for the Office of War Information, and were leased out to the British forces fighting in southern Burma. In China, Nisei MIS performed intelligence services for the ``Dixie Mission'' to Communist China Headquarters at Yenan and OSS Detachment 202 in Kunming, and fought with Chiang Kai Shek's Forces against the Japanese in southwestern China. 
   Central Pacific Command: Admiral Nimitz organized the ``Joint Intelligence Center Pacific Ocean Area (JICPOA) operating out of Pearl Harbor, staffed by hundreds of Nisei translator/interrogators who were assigned out to serve with the U.S. Army, Navy, Marine and Air Force units waging the Pacific War against Japan. Nisei participated in the amphibious landings and land battles of the Marine Corps to capture Tarawa, Makin, Kwajalein and Eniwetok and were part of Marine and Army attacking units invading and capturing Saipan, Iwo Jima and Okinawa. Nisei radio interceptors flew as crews on U.S. Air Force bombing missions over the Japanese mainland. With their language skills they called into caves at Saipan, Iwo Jima and Okinawa to persuade hundreds of Japanese soldiers and civilian natives to surrender and save their lives without needless mortality. T/Sgt Hoichi Kubo assigned to the U.S. 27th Division entered a cliffside cave alone at Saipan to face 9 armed Japanese soldiers to successfully persuade them not only to release the 120 civilians held captive there but for the soldiers themselves to surrender. Kubo was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross, the highest decoration received by any Nisei in the Pacific War. Nisei linguists attached to the front line of American invading forces not only assumed the normal hazards of combat but also faced the additional danger of being mistaken for an enemy Jap and shot at by their own troops, so they were assigned personal bodyguards at their sides at all times! 
   Japan's Surrender and Occupation: With the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan accepted the terms of the Potsdam Declaration and surrendered on August 15, 1945. OSS Nisei like Fumio Kido, Dick Hamada and Ralph Yempuku parachuted down into Japanese POW prison camps at Hankow, Mukden, Peiping and Hainan as interpreters on mercy missions to liberate American and Allied prisoners. 
   Over 5,000 Nisei served as the vital link between General MacArthur's Occupational headquarters and the Japanese people during the seven year occupation of Japan, contributing to the promotion of peaceful and harmonious relationships between occupation forces and Japanese citizens. Nisei were part of military government offices established all over Japan to ensure proper implementation of occupational policies, interpreting the directives and verifying that local governments carried them out. Nisei buttressed U.S. Army Counter Intelligence Corps efforts to detect and prevent subversive activities against Occupation Forces, screened hundreds of thousands of Japanese soldiers repatriating back to Japan against communist influences, helped design the Land Reform Law, and provided vital translator/interpreter services at the War Crimes Trials against Japanese war criminals. Nisei participated in every major assignment covering military government, disarmament, civil affairs and intelligence and helped to frame the new Japanese Constitution which pledged that Japan would ``forever renounce war as a sovereign right of the nation.'' A personal assessment of the Nisei's role in the occupation is stated by Harry Fukuhara, a combat veteran of the Southwest Pacific campaign and himself a member of the occupation forces, thusly: ``The role of the Military Intelligence Personnel during the Occupation of Japan also was very important in assisting the rapid recovery that helped Japan to be accepted back into the family of nations. Nisei soldiers, with their language fluency and knowledge of Japanese culture and customs, bridged the gap between U.S. forces and the Japanese government. This was one of the key elements contributing to the recovery of war-torn Japan, its people and economy. Nisei efforts also laid the groundwork for the bilateral relationships that exists today between the United States and Japan.'' 
   Summary: Such in brief is the story of the Nisei MIS linguist, America's little known ``secret weapon'' against Japan during World War II. Their story is little known because their identity and their work was conducted under the strictest security and secrecy and their vital role in waging the successful intelligence war against Japan remained classified for until over 30 years after the War. Their role was considered indispensable because they possessed and employed the most effective weapon knowledge to be able to  comprehend and pierce the enemy's complex, difficult language and their services contributed tremendously to the Allied victory. General MacArthur stated that ``Never in military history did any army know so much about the enemy prior to actual engagement.'' On April 1, 2000, the President of the United States bestowed upon the Nisei MIS the Presidential Unit Citation, the highest honor that can be awarded to any military unit. The major part of the citations reads:  
   The key contributions made by the members of the Military Intelligence Service in providing valuable intelligence on military targets helped advance the United States and Allied cause during World War II and undoubtedly saved countless lives and hastened the end of the war. The significant achievements accomplished by the faithful and dedicated service of the linguistic-intelligence specialist graduates of the Military Intelligence Service will never be forgotten by our grateful nation. Their unconquerable sprit and gallant deeds under fire in the face of superior odds, and their self-sacrificing devotion to duty are worthy of the highest emulation.  
   The Nisei served with distinction and honor; not a single case of subversion or disloyalty was ever charged against them. Little is known that nineteen Nisei gave up their lives in the line of duty in the Pacific War. They convincingly proved that Japanese Americans were more than willing and able to fight against an enemy of their own race, and validated the truism ``Americanism is not, and never was, a matter of race or ancestry. Americanism is a matter of the mind and heart.'' 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today the Transportation Security Administration, TSA, will begin receiving applications from U.S. airports that wish to participate in the Screener Partnership Program. This program will allow airports to hire security screeners employed by private-sector companies to provide baggage and passenger security screening at their facilities for the first time since September 11, 2001. 
   In the aftermath of the attacks of 9/11, security screening at U.S. airports was federalized because commercial airplanes were turned into guided missiles. Those attacks demonstrated that the then current airport security system was not working. Less than two weeks later, the Government Accountability Office, GAO, testified before the Senate Commerce Committee that screeners were deficient at detecting threatening objects and were not given sufficient training by employers and access controls to secure areas in airports were weak. 
   The congressional conferees of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, ATSA, also concluded that ``a fundamental change (is required) in the way (the U.S.) approaches the task of ensuring the safety and security of the civil air transportation system.'' 
   It is the responsibility of the administration and the Congress to ensure that aviation security does not fall back to the pre-9/11 status quo. Congress understood the need to evaluate how well a federalized workforce would compare to a privately employed workforce prior to allowing privatization which is why the ATSA included a 3-year screener pilot program involving five U.S. airports. 
   Despite this pilot program, the Department of Homeland Security Inspector General testified at a House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee hearing on April 22, 2004, that there was not sufficient basis to determine conclusively whether the pilot airport screeners performed at a level equal to or greater than that of the federal screeners. GAO, also testifying at the hearing, said, ``Little performance data is currently available to compare the performance of private screeners and federal screeners in detecting threat objects.'' Before the Nation's airports return to commercially hired and trained screening workforces, we must make sure there has truly  been adequate analysis of the performance of private airport screeners prior to allowing privatization. 
   In a November 16, 2004, press release announcing the commencement of its Screener Partnership Program, TSA stated, ``An evaluation earlier this year concluded there was little difference in the performance or cost of the private and federal screening forces.'' 
   TSA is relying on a study that both the DHS IG and GAO found to be inconclusive. Given the high stakes involved in airport security, I am concerned that the decision to begin this program is being made without sufficient data. 
   In addition, I have concerns about TSA's ability to award and administer contracts with private screening companies based on a September 2004 DHS IG report that found TSA mismanaged a contract with Boeing to install Explosive Detection Systems, EDS, and overpaid Boeing by approximately $49 million. According to the IG report, contractor performance was not evaluated for each year of the contract until approximately a full calendar year later. Most troubling is that TSA rejected some of the IG's key criticisms, which makes me question the manner in which it will manage future contracts. Moreover, I believe we must also consider whether contractual mismanagement could lead to lapses in security. Are the right standards and policies in place to ensure that private screeners will provide the same security as federalized screeners, 
   and is TSA equipped to enforce them? 
   As the ranking member of the Financial Management Subcommittee and the Armed Services Readiness Subcommittee, I have long worked on the challenges of Federal acquisitions. I want to make sure that DHS, which is a composite of 22 legacy agencies, has the people and tools needed to solicit and manage the Screener Partnership Program. Just this week I contacted Secretary Ridge to express my concern about the $49 million overrun of the Boeing EDS installation contract. That wasted money could have gone a long way towards helping Honolulu International Airport in my home State of Hawaii install inline EDS machines. 
   My interest is to improve the management of contracts and the collection of timely and accurate information and to stop erroneous and improper payments to contractors. For that reason I was pleased to work with my good friend, Senator FITZGERALD, in passing legislation to bring the Department of Homeland Security under the Chief Financial Officers Act, CFO. The Department runs the risk of becoming a morass of hidden contract costs and poorly managed programs without a strong CFO to ensure accountability and transparency. 
   I would, however, like to commend TSA for honoring a commitment made by Admiral Stone at his confirmation hearing before the Governmental Affairs Committee that Federal screeners at airports which chose to use a private workforce give TSA screeners the right of first refusal for jobs. It is important that the substantial investment made by the Federal Government in the hiring, the training, and the deployment of Federal screeners not go to waste. 
   I plan to monitor very carefully how this plan develops, both in terms of the level of security provided to the traveling public and the level of transparency and accountability of the contracts. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to express my concern over recent news reports detailing turmoil inside the Central Intelligence Agency since the arrival of the new Director, Porter Goss, and former members of his staff in the House of Representatives. 
   As a senior member of the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs with oversight responsibility for homeland security and the committee responsible for drafting the legislative reform on intelligence now in conference, I am deeply concerned about the impact the new leadership at the CIA may have on our national security. 
   Since the terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 2001, the Congress has been engaged as never before in efforts to reform our intelligence collection capability in terms of our ability to improve the technical means to collect and share critical information in a timely fashion. The key component to that reform is human capital. Time and time again in outside commissions, reports to the Congress, and in hearings, we have been told that our intelligence and law enforcement communities lack sufficient qualified personnel to collect and analyze information. I introduced legislation, S. 589, the Homeland Security Federal Workforce Act, which passed the Senate with bipartisan support last year and is now in the House, to help rectify that problem. Other Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle have also introduced legislation to improve our intelligence and law enforcement workforce. 
   This is why I am so disturbed by the news reports that senior members of the CIA are being forced to resign, are being pressured to fire subordinates, and there are fears that they may even be asked to tailor their analysis to support the administration's policies, according to the November 17, 2004, New York Times. I ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the RECORD following my remarks. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Among those who have been forced out or retired recently are the Deputy Director of the CIA, the Deputy Director of Operations, the second ranking member of the clandestine service, and the former head of the CIA bin Laden unit. Other resignations, retirements, or reassignments may follow. 
   Apparently, Director Goss brought with him at least 4 former staffers from the House of Representatives and inserted them into senior positions at the agency where they have begun to force these resignations. 
   This is troubling for two reasons: First, we cannot afford to lose any intelligence personnel, especially seasoned officers, in the midst of the war on terrorism. We have so few people we cannot fully staff the Terrorist Threat Integration Center, TTIC, that the President created to provide a coordinated counterterrorism response to the 9/11 attacks. Secondly, our intelligence staff have been working 24/7 since the war on terrorism and the war in Iraq began. They need morale boosters, not the morale downers that come from the forced resignations of well-respected leaders. 
   So desperate is the personnel situation that the intelligence reform bill, S. 2845, now in conference, authorizes the establishment of a National Intelligence Reserve Corps for the temporary reemployment of former intelligence community employees during periods of emergency. 
   Some would argue that the CIA is a ``damaged agency'' that needs to be reformed through ``hard love.'' Perhaps that is the case. Perhaps the operations directorate needs to be given new direction. I understand that both President Clinton and President Bush, in his first term, were focused on reforming the clandestine operations through the efforts of Director Tenet and that those reforms were yielding results. But if those results are insufficient, more needs to be done. 
   If a ship needs to change course and requires a new crew, the new crew needs to knows both how to pilot a ship and how to plot a course. So far, the current upheaval at the Central Intelligence Agency makes me worry that the current new crew may not measure up to that challenge. I would like to be proved wrong because our national security depends on it. 
   Exhibit 1  
   New C.I.A. Chief Tells Workers To Back Administration Policies  
   WASHINGTON, Nov. 16.--Porter J. Goss, the new intelligence chief, has told Central Intelligence Agency employees that their job is to ``support the administration and its policies in our work,'' a copy of an internal memorandum shows. 
   ``As agency employees we do not identify with, support or champion opposition to the administration or its policies,'' Mr. Goss said in the memorandum, which was circulated late on Monday. He said in the document that he was seeking ``to clarify beyond doubt the rules of the road.'' 
   While his words could be construed as urging analysts to conform with administration policies, Mr. Goss also wrote, ``We provide the intelligence as we see it--and let the facts alone speak to the policymaker.'' 
   The memorandum suggested an effort by Mr. Goss to spell out his thinking as he embarked on what he made clear would be a major overhaul at the agency, with further changes to come. The changes to date, including the ouster of the agency's clandestine service chief, have left current and former intelligence officials angry and unnerved. Some have been outspoken, including those who said Tuesday that they regarded Mr. Goss's warning as part of an effort to suppress dissent within the organization. 
   In recent weeks, White House officials have complained that some C.I.A. officials have sought to undermine President Bush and his policies. 
   At a minimum, Mr. Goss's memorandum appeared to be a swipe against an agency decision under George J. Tenet, his predecessor as director of central intelligence, to permit a senior analyst at the agency, Michael Scheuer, to write a book and grant interviews that were critical of the Bush administration's policies on terrorism. 
   One former intelligence official said he saw nothing inappropriate in Mr. Goss's warning, noting that the C.I.A. had long tried to distance itself and its employees from policy matters. 
   ``Mike exploited a seam in the rules and inappropriately used it to express his own policy views,'' the official said of Mr. Scheuer. ``That did serious damage to the agency, because many people, including some in the White House, thought that he was being urged by the agency to take on the president. I know that was not the case.'' 
   But a second former intelligence official said he was concerned that the memorandum and the changes represented an effort by Mr. Goss to stifle independence. 
   ``If Goss is asking people to color their views and be a team player, that's not what people at C.I.A. signed up for,'' said the former intelligence official. The official and others interviewed in recent days spoke on condition that they not be named, saying they did not want to inflame tensions at the agency. 
   Some of the contents of Mr. Goss's memorandum were first reported by The Washington Post. A complete copy of the document was obtained on Tuesday by The New York Times. 
   Tensions between the agency's new leadership team, which took over in late September, and senior career officials are more intense than at any time since the late 1970's. The most significant changes so far have been the resignations on Monday of Stephen R. Kappes, the deputy director of operations, and his deputy, Michael Sulick, but Mr. Goss told agency employees in the memorandum that he planned further changes ``in the days and weeks ahead of us'' that would involve ``procedures, organization, senior personnel and areas of focus for our action.'' 
   ``I am committed to sharing these changes with you as they occur,'' Mr. Goss said in the memorandum. ``I do understand it is easy to be distracted by both the nature and the pace of change. I am confident, however, that you will remain deeply committed to our mission.'' 
   Mr. Goss's memorandum included a reminder that C.I.A. employees should ``scrupulously honor our secrecy oath'' by allowing the agency's public affairs office and its Congressional relations branch to take the lead in all contacts with the media and with Congress. ``We remain a secret organization,'' he said. 
   Among the moves that Mr. Goss said he was weighing was the selection of a candidate to become the agency's No. 2 official, the deputy director of central intelligence. The name being mentioned most often within the C.I.A. as a candidate, intelligence officials said, is Lt. Gen. Michael V. Hayden of the Air Force, the director of the National Security Agency, which is responsible for intercepting electronic communications worldwide. The naming of a deputy director would be made by the White House, in a nomination subject to Senate confirmation. 
   In interviews this week, members of Congress as well as current and former intelligence officials said one reason the overhaul under way had left them unnerved was that Mr. Goss had not made clear what kind of agency he intended to put in place. But Mr. Goss's memorandum did little to spell out that vision, and it did not make clear why the focus of overhaul efforts to date appeared to be on the operations directorate, which carries out spying and other covert missions around the world. 
   ``It's just very hard to divine what's going on over there,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, who said he and other members of the Senate intelligence committee would be seeking answers at closed sessions this week. ``But on issue after issue, there's a real question about whether the country and the Congress are going to get an unvarnished picture of our intelligence situation at a critical time.'' 
   Mr. Goss said in the memorandum that he recognized that intelligence officers were operating in an atmosphere of extraordinary pressures, after a series of reports critical of intelligence agencies' performance in the months leading up to the Sept. 11 attacks and the war in Iraq. 
   ``The I.C. and its people have been relentlessly scrutinized and criticized,'' he said, using an abbreviation for intelligence community. ``Intelligence-related issues have become the fodder of partisan food fights and turf-power skirmishes. All the while, the demand for our services and products against a ruthless and unconventional enemy has expanded geometrically and we are expected to deliver--instantly. We have reason to be proud of our achievements and we need to be smarter about how we do our work in this operational climate.'' 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I commend the Senator from Iowa for his  stalwart stand for the farmers of America. He has been a strong Member of the Senate for our farmers over the years. I commend him for his statement. 
   Mr. President, I rise to express my views on the conference report to accompany H.R. 4520, the Jumpstart Our Business Strength Act, to be on record as to why I voted against cloture. On balance, although the package contains a number of helpful provisions, it ultimately falls short of what we owe to the people of my State and the people of this country. 
   Initially, I would like to thank my colleagues for their hard work on this bill, which contains some good provisions to help American businesses and works toward ending harmful tariffs currently placed on many of our exports. The conference report also contains some much-needed boosts for renewable energy and renewable fuels. It will expand production tax credits to include renewable sources of electricity, such as geothermal and solar energy, landfill gas, trash combustion, and open-loop biomass. It will provide a per-gallon excise tax credit for ethanol blended by refineries and a 50-cent-per-gallon income tax credit for each gallon of biodiesel used or sold as fuel. As a longtime advocate for renewable and alternative energy sources, I believe these incentives are important to help our renewable energy businesses in Hawaii increase the amount of renewable energy used to produce electricity. 
   However, there is much more that the final conference agreement lacks that leaves me no choice but to oppose the measure. For example, I am disappointed that some of the measures in S. 476, the CARE Act, which passed the Senate by an overwhelming vote of 95 to 5, did not make it into the bill. In particular, section 310 of the Senate's CARE Act bill is important for our teaching hospitals. The provision allows support organizations to utilize debt to improve teaching hospitals' real estate endowment. This would assist charitable teaching hospitals in my State of Hawaii and other States as well. Regrettably, this provision was not incorporated into the conference report. 
   I supported another provision in an amendment offered by my colleague from Louisiana, Senator Landrieu, that the Senate accepted by voice vote. This amendment sought to improve the credit for employers of the men and women in the Ready Reserve or National Guard who have been called to active military duty. In light of large deployments underway in my State of Hawaii and other areas of the U.S.--as the Senator from Louisiana said earlier, about 57 percent of Hawaii's Guard and Reserves have been called up--this was a very significant amendment to show that we honor the commitment that the Reserves and Guard have made to our country. I am very disappointed that this amendment was stripped in conference, despite a strong show of support by this body. 
   I understand that there may be efforts to try to rectify this problem, and I hope that we get somewhere, but it should have been remedied during conference on this measure. 
   I am pleased that the bill includes long-awaited provisions to shut down certain abusive tax shelters. However, as meaningful as some of those tax loophole closers are, the Senate had sought a stronger package to further restore faith in corporate America. Although this represents a missed opportunity, I hope that we will revisit the matter in the next Congress. 
   In addition, I am pleased that the conferees heeded calls for fiscal responsibility and used provisions such as those ending tax shelters to fully offset the package. However, depending on whether the leadership of our Nation or this body changes next month, we may face tremendous additional costs years from now when tax cut extensions and expansions in the package are further extended or possibly made permanent. I hope that we are able to stick to fiscal prudence when working on future tax cut measures, given important domestic and international priorities that could continue to suffer from further major decreases in Federal revenues. 
   I also oppose this bill because it represents a missed opportunity related to the U.S. Department of Labor's overtime regulations. Since the Department published its proposed overtime regulations in the Federal Register in March 2003, Members of Congress have been trying to improve the regulations to ensure that all workers are not adversely affected by these changes. However, our concerns have not been heard by this administration. Rather, this administration continues to disregard the wishes of the majority of the Members in this Chamber that believe certain portions of the overtime regulations will take away overtime protections for some workers. On May 4, 2004, the Senate passed an amendment introduced by Senator Harkin that would allow for full implementation of any regulations that expanded or improved overtime coverage, but would prohibit the Department of Labor from implementing any new rules which would take away overtime protections currently guaranteed. And, once again, in conference, the provision was taken away. 
   Finally, an extremely important provision has been omitted from the conference report. By an overwhelming vote of 78 to 15, the Senate approved an amendment offered by my colleagues Senators KENNEDY and DEWINE to provide the Food and Drug Administration, FDA, with the authority to regulate tobacco products. I appreciate their leadership on this critical issue. 
   For too long, the FDA has not been provided with the necessary authority to regulate a substance that causes so many lives to be lost. The Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids, American Heart Association, American Cancer Society, and American Lung Association sponsored the educational campaign piece behind me. As you can see, it features a young child, likely no older than 8 or 9 years old. Yet, children this age are too often the target audience of cartoon-like tobacco advertising that seeks to exploit them as part of a target market for cigarettes. According to the Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids, smoking is the leading cause of preventable deaths, killing approximately 400,000 people each year. The FDA must be provided with the authority to regulate tobacco products to help prevent children from becoming addicted and to make tobacco products less harmful than they are in their current form. 
   It is estimated that 2,000 children are hooked on tobacco every day. Flavoring cigarettes is one of the tactics used to entice children and teenagers to start smoking. Right here, you can see an example of the marketing that was employed in this campaign. This summer, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company produced flavored cigarettes that used images of my home State of Hawaii and the name of one of our islands in an attempt to make smoking more attractive. One of the cigarettes, which was named Kauai Kolada, is flavored with ``Hawaiian hints of pineapple and coconut.'' I don't know if you can see this, but let me point it out right here. Another lime-flavored cigarette is featured in the same marketing campaign. 
   I am outraged that a manufacturer of such a deadly product would exploit and, therefore, taint images and names from Hawaii in their attempts to lure children into smoking. It presents a false promise of paradise. The DeWine-Kennedy amendment would have prohibited flavored cigarettes, such as the Kauai Kolada, and restricted tobacco advertising. 
   Any buyout for tobacco farmers must include FDA regulation. It is outrageous that this current Congress will fail to take necessary and justifiable steps to help protect our children and improve the public health of our country. It appears that certain tobacco companies want to continue to cultivate another generation of smokers so that they can increase their sale and reap more profits at the expense of the health and well-being of our families. 
   Coming from a State that does not have a large manufacturing base, the bulk of this conference report will not apply. Given that fact, I still find it my duty to help American manufacturers for the good of our country, and I applaud the provisions in this conference report that do so. It is our manufacturers that help us maintain our status as an economic powerhouse in the world. 
   However, as occurs with other large bills, there are enough things wrong with this final package and enough missed opportunities that I am unable to support it. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Taxpayer Abuse Prevention Act. Earned income tax credit (EITC) benefits intended for working families are increasingly being reduced by the growing use of refund anticipation loans, which typically carry triple digit interest rates. According to the Brookings Institution, an estimated $1.9 billion intended to assist low-income families was received by commercial tax preparers and affiliated national banks to pay for tax assistance, electronic filing of returns, and high-cost refund loans in 2002. The interest rates and fees charged on refund anticipation loans (RALs) are not justified  for the short length of time that these loans cover and the minimal risk they present. These loans carry little risk because of the Debt Indicator program. The Debt Indicator (DI) is a service provided by the Internal Revenue Service that informs the lender whether or not an applicant owes Federal or State taxes, child support, student loans, or other government obligations, which assists the tax preparer in ascertaining the applicant's ability to obtain their full refund so that the RAL is repaid. The Department of the Treasury should not be facilitating these predatory loans that allow tax preparers to reap outrageous profits by exploiting working families. 
   Unfortunately too many working families are susceptible to predatory lending because they are left out of the financial mainstream. Between 25 and 56 million adults are unbanked, or not using mainstream, insured financial institutions. The unbanked rely on alternative financial service providers to obtain cash from checks, pay bills, send remittances, utilize payday loans, and obtain credit. Many of the unbanked are low- and moderate-income families that can ill afford to have their earnings unnecessarily diminished by their reliance on these high-cost and often predatory financial services. In addition, the unbanked are unable to save securely to prepare for the loss of a job, a family illness, a down payment on a first home, or education expenses. 
   My bill will protect consumers against predatory loans, reduce the involvement of the Department of the Treasury in facilitating the exploitation of taxpayers, and expand access to opportunities for saving and lending at mainstream financial services. 
   My bill prohibits refund anticipation loans that utilize EITC benefits. Other Federal benefits, such as Social Security, have similar restrictions to ensure that the beneficiaries receive the intended benefit. 
   My bill also limits several of the objectionable practices of RAL providers. My legislation will prohibit lenders from using tax refunds to collect outstanding obligations for previous RALs. In addition, mandatory arbitration clauses for RALs that utilize federal tax refunds would be prohibited to ensure that consumers have the ability to take future legal action if necessary in the future. 
   I am deeply troubled that the Department of the Treasury plays such a prominent role in the facilitation and subsequent promotion of refund anticipation loans. In 1995, the use of the DI was suspended because of massive fraud in e-filed returns with RALs. After the program was discontinued, RAL participation declined. The use of the DI was reinstated in 1999, according to H&R Block, to ``assist with screening for electronic filing fraud and is also expected to substantially reduce refund anticipation loan pricing.'' Although RAL prices were expected go down as a result of the reinstatement of the DI, this has not occurred. The Debt Indicator should once again be stopped. The DI is helping tax preparers make excessive profits of low- and moderate-income taxpayers who utilize the service. If the Debt Indicator is removed, then the loans become riskier and the tax preparers may not aggressively market them among EITC filers. The IRS should not be aiding efforts that take the earned benefit away from low-income families and allow unscrupulous preparers to take advantage of low-income taxpayers. My bill terminates the DI program. In addition, my bill removes the incentive to meet Congressionally mandated electronic filing goals by facilitating the exploitation of taxpayers. My bill would prevent any electronically filed tax returns that resulted in tax refunds that were distributed by refund anticipation loans from being counted towards the goal established by the IRS Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 that the IRS have at least 80 percent of all returns filed electronically by 2007. 
   My bill also expands access to mainstream financial services. Electronic Transfer Accounts (ETA) are low-cost accounts at banks and credit unions that are intended for recipients of certain Federal benefit payments. Currently, ETAs are provided for recipients of other federal benefits such as Social Security payments. My bill expands the eligibility for ETAs to include EITC benefits. These accounts will allow taxpayers to receive direct deposit refunds into an account without the need for a RAL. 
   Furthermore, my bill would mandate that low- and moderate-income taxpayers be provided opportunities to open low-cost accounts at federally insured banks or credit unions via appropriate tax forms. Providing taxpayers with the option of opening a bank or credit union account through the use of tax forms provides an alternative to RALs and provides immediate access to the opportunities found at banks and credit unions. 
   I want to thank my colleagues, Senator Bingaman and Senator Durbin for cosponsoring the legislation. I also thank Representative JAN SCHAKOWSKY for introducing the companion legislation in the other body. I ask unanimous consent that the text of the Taxpayer Abuse Prevention Act be printed following my remarks. I also ask unanimous consent that the text of a support letter from the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, the Children's Defense Fund, the Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, and the National Consumer Law Center, be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to commend my colleagues on the adoption of amendment No. 3765 to S. 2845, the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004, which will create an Office of Geospatial Management within the Department of Homeland Security, DHS. 
   This amendment originated as a stand alone bill, S. 1230, which was introduced by Senator Allard and amended by Senators COLLINS, LIEBERMAN, and myself in a Governmental Affairs Committee business meeting. I thank Senator Allard, who shares my interest in geospatial information sharing, for offering this amendment, as well as Senators COLLINS and LIEBERMAN for their continued support on this issue. 
   Much of the discussion that has grown from the 9/11 Commission report has centered around the institutional stovepipes that impede information sharing within the Government, which is why this amendment is so important. While the term ``geospatial'' is foreign to many, the tools it describes are relied upon by all. The 9/11 Commission recommended that the President ``lead a government-wide effort to bring major national security institutions into the information revolution.'' Geospatial coordination is a critical component of that effort. 
   Geospatial technologies, such as satellite imagery and aerial photography, provide data that create the maps and charts that can help prevent a disaster from occurring or lessen the impact of an unforeseeable event by equipping first responders with up-to-date information. In the event of a terrorist chemical attack, knowing which way a contaminated plume will travel can save lives. Similarly, the damage of a natural disaster, such as a wildfire, can be lessened by maps that help predict which areas will be in the path of the blaze. 
   All levels of government are more effective and efficient when employing geospatial technology, especially in the area of homeland security. According to DHS, geospatial information is used for intelligence, law enforcement, first response, disaster recovery, and agency management--virtually every function of the Department. 
   When the Department was created in 2003, it brought together components from 22 separate agencies, each of which managed its geospatial needs independently. In the past year, the Department has encountered significant difficulties integrating personnel, financial systems, and computer systems from the legacy agencies. Geospatial information has been no different. 
   A September 2004 Government Accountability Office, GAO, report entitled ``Maritime Security: Better Planning Needed to Help Ensure Effective Port Security Assessment Program,'' found that the development of a geographic information system, GIS--GIS is often used as a synonym for geospatial to map the Nation's most strategic ports would greatly benefit the Coast Guard as it implements the Port Security Assessment Program. A GIS would integrate all security information pertaining to one port into a single database so that it is easily accessible and can be frequently updated. In addition, it would give the Coast Guard the ability to visually map a port so that it can quickly identify the location and surrounding environment of an at-risk container before deploying a response team, for example. 
   However, GAO also found that:  
   The Coast Guard lacks a strategy that clearly defines how the (GIS) program will be managed, how much it will cost, or what activities will continue over the long term.  
   The legacy agencies that make up DHS had traditionally managed their own geospatial procurement. But many of the homeland and non-homeland security missions of DHS complement each other. Sharing 
   maps and data reduces redundancy, provides savings, and ensures better information for disaster response. 
   Currently, the DHS Chief Information Officer, CIO, is working to break down this geospatial stovepiping within the Department by naming a Geospatial Information Officer. However, there is no single office in DHS officially responsible for geospatial management and, therefore, no corresponding budget. In the present structure, the Geospatial Information Officer does not have the authority to compel the five DHS directorates to cooperate with his efforts. The entire agency should make geospatial coordination a priority. 
   A geospatial management office needs to be created and codified within DHS. A congressionally mandated office would give the Geospatial Information Officer more authority with which to do this job.  
   The Office of Geospatial Management has the potential to significantly increase the quality of the resources homeland security officials rely on by reducing redundancy and improving the quality of geospatial procurement. But in order to do this it needs authority and funding. 
   This office would also serve as a mechanism for coordinating with State and local authorities. Much of the geospatial information available today is created at the State and local levels. Centralizing this information will make it more widely available to first responders and other homeland security officials. 
   In order to facilitate this process, it is also important that local governments initiate their own coordination efforts. In June 2003, the city of Honolulu conducted a pilot program to foster geospatial coordination and collaboration among public and private stakeholders in critical infrastructure protection. Representatives from local and State government, utility companies, and other private organizations came together to identify potential impediments to geospatial information sharing in Honolulu and to develop a plan to circumvent those impediments. I commend the government of the City and County of Honolulu for hosting such an exemplary event. This sort of commitment at a local level is crucial to breaking down the geospatial stovepipes that exist at all levels of government. I hope other cities will follow suit. 
   This amendment will help DHS to better coordinate its activities, and will ultimately make our Nation safer and prevent duplicative spending. I appreciate my colleagues' endorsement of this important issue, and urge that this language be maintained in the final version of the intelligence reorganization bill that is sent to the President. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to engage in a colloquy concerning language in the Senate version of H.R. 4567, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, regarding the distribution of the port security grant program. 
   Under current policy, any port designated as a critical national seaport terminal may apply for a port security grant even though the grants are funded through the Urban Area Security Initiative, UASI, grant program. I would like to clarify that it is the intent of Congress that the port security grant program continue to be administered in this manner, and not limited to ports in UASI cities, as such a policy would deprive many American ports of crucial security funding. 
   I would like to ask my distinguished colleague from Mississippi if he agrees that it is the intent of Congress to continue the distribution of port security grants to all national critical seaports as has been done in the past? 
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to express my concern that we need to do much more and do it much sooner to address the threat posed by Avian influenza and other infectious diseases. 
   The Avian influenza outbreaks that occurred in late June 2004 indicate that the virus is becoming more pathogenic and more widespread according to World Health Organization, WHO, officials. In addition, this virus has crossed the species barrier, moving from infected chickens or ducks directly into humans in three documented outbreaks since 1997. 
   I am most troubled, however, by a warning from WHO officials that the virus may acquire the ability to spread easily from human to human, and thus, trigger a global influenza pandemic. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, CDC, an influenza pandemic could cause an estimated 89,000 to 207,000 deaths, 314,000 to 733,000 hospitalizations, and cost from $71-$167 billion in the United States alone. We cannot afford to take this threat lightly. 
   The so-called bird flu is deadly to humans. It killed 24 out of 35 people who  contracted it from chickens in Thailand and Vietnam earlier this year. In July an additional three were killed in Vietnam. This fatality rate is in the same range as the Ebola virus which is considered one of the most virulent viral diseases known to man. 
   Lack of effective treatment options for Avian flu contribute to its lethality. Creating an effective vaccine for the Avian influenza virus is extremely difficult. The virus is so deadly that a vaccine cannot easily be grown in eggs, the usual method of production. Other vaccine production methods are being studied, but the required extensive safety tests for a new vaccine mean that large scale vaccine distribution is not feasible in the near term. 
   Equally disturbing is that only one drug is currently believed effective to treat Avian flu, an antiviral medicine called Tamiflu which helps only if taken within one to two days of developing symptoms of the disease. 
   The WHO recently decided Tamiflu should be included in regional stockpiles to be distributed at the first sign of a new influenza virus spreading among humans. Unfortunately, if a pandemic of Avian flu were to occur now, the manufacturer of Tamiflu could not produce enough of the drug to meet the huge demand that would occur, and there is no generic substitute. 
   In light of these very limited treatment options, we should heed the WHO's warning and take aggressive steps to prevent a pandemic from occurring while at the same time increasing our preparedness to respond to all public health emergencies by developing a global defense system against the outbreak of diseases, including those resulting from terrorist attacks. 
   On July 31, 2003, I introduced S. Res. 208 to address this concern. The resolution seeks to improve American defenses against the spread of infectious diseases by calling for improvements in global disease surveillance capabilities because the early warning of a disease outbreak is key to its identification, the quick application of countermeasures, and the development a cure. 
   The recent Presidential Directive 10, ``Biodefense for the 21st Century,'' observes that many bioterror attacks could initially mimic naturally occurring diseases and potentially delay recognition of an attack. This is another important reason why I believe that the United States must strengthen its ability to detect diseases before they cross our borders. To pursue this initiative, I along with Senators Bingaman, Dodd, Durbin, Feinstein, Inouye, Leahy, Levin, Lieberman, Murray, and Sarbanes sent a letter to President Bush urging his support for global health issues at the 2004 Group of Eight, G-8, Summit. Our letter underscored the need for better disease surveillance and reporting systems which are inclusive of all public health emergencies of international concern. 
   I am pleased that the G-8 committed to take steps to expand and initiate new biosurveillance capabilities to detect bioterror against humans, animals, and crops; improve bioterrorism prevention and response capabilities; increase protection of the global food supply; and respond to, investigate, and mitigate the effects of alleged uses of biological weapons or suspicious outbreaks of disease. 
   The administration followed the G-8 summit with the August release an updated draft of the 1978 Pandemic Influenza Response and Preparedness Plan for 60 days of public comment. This plan outlines the administration's proposed national strategy for preparing and responding to an influenza pandemic. Developing a strategy is good and the administration is to be commended for its concern, but far better would be committing more resources now to programs that have already been identified as critical to our preparedness. 
   For example, the administration's fiscal year 2005 budget request, which cuts 
   public health preparedness for State and local governments by more than $105 million and hospital preparedness funding at the Health Resources and Services Administration by $39 million, seriously calls into question the administration's commitment to ensuring that U.S. citizens are protected from bioterrorist events and other public health emergencies. 
   I commend the President and the G-8 for expressing support for global health issues, but words and plans are not enough. We need action and we need action now. We must act together to reduce the grave threat that biological weapons and naturally occurring infectious diseases pose to the safety and security of the world. 
   Adoption of S. 427, the Agriculture Security Assistance Act, and S. 430, the Agriculture Security Preparedness Act, which I introduced in 2003 to help protect our Nation from an agroterror attack, would be a good first step for the United States as we strive to live up to the promises made to our G-8 partners. S. 427 would assist states and communities in responding to threats to the agriculture industry by providing funding for biosecurity grants to farmers and community planning activities. S. 430 would enable better interagency coordination within the federal government as it works to plan and respond to a threat to American agriculture. 
   We should also ensure that the National Security Council, and the Departments of State, Homeland Security, and Health and Human Services have the funding and support they need to fully implement the commitments made at the 2004 G-8 summit. CDC's fiscal year 2005 budget request for global disease detection shows an increase of $27.5 million over the fiscal year 2004 budget. However, this funding increase comes at the expense of other important public health initiatives. We should not be robbing Peter to pay Paul when it comes to the health and safety of our Nation. 
   We must take action to increase WHO's global disease surveillance capability, including supporting their effort to revise the International Health Regulations by expanding the scope of required disease reporting to include all public health emergencies of international concern. An April 2004 Government Accountability Office, GAO, report on emerging infectious diseases, ``Asian SARS Outbreak Challenged International and National Responses,'' GAO-04-564, noted that the response by governments in SARS-affected countries was hindered by inadequate disease surveillance systems, poor communication, ineffective leadership, insufficient public health capacity, and limited resources. 
   While the International Health Regulations provide the legal framework for global infectious disease control, WHO's Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network, GOARN, is the primary mechanism by which WHO mobilizes technical resources for the investigation of and response to disease outbreaks of international importance. The SARS outbreak was the first time that the GOARN network was activated on such a large scale for an international outbreak of an unknown emerging infectious disease. During the SARS outbreak, GOARN's human resources were stretched to capacity. GOARN experienced difficulty in sustaining the response to SARS over time and getting the appropriate experts out into the field. 
   These difficulties in responding to and containing the SARS outbreak demonstrate the urgent need to strengthen our ability to respond to global health emergencies. For example, the CDC reported that if the United States had experienced many SARS cases during the global outbreak, CDC might not have been able to make as many of their staff available to assist GOARN. In light of this, the implications of a bioterror event or an influenza pandemic are chilling. The SARS outbreak sickened 8,089 people causing 774 deaths in 2003, and an influenza pandemic is estimated by CDC to affect 10 times as many people. 
   CDC's fiscal year 2005 budget request for global disease detection is $50 million. This figure is not adequate when one considers that the SARS outbreak alone cost Asian economies $11 billion to $18 billion and resulted in losses of 0.5 percent to 2 percent of total output. If we multiply that by 10 for an influenza pandemic, the numbers are staggering. If we act now to increase funding for these programs, we have a chance to help prevent such a tragic situation from happening. By helping the world cope with infectious disease outbreaks we not only increase global public health, but help ensure the health and safety of the American people as well.  
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I congratulate the team of students from Iolani School of Honolulu, HI, for logging a national accomplishment in the National Economics Challenge recently held in New York City. The team traveled over 5,000 miles to represent not only Hawaii, but the western region in the competition, at which they achieved a second-place finish in their category, the David Ricardo division, which is for students enrolled in single-semester economics courses. 
   The National Economics Challenge is sponsored by the National Council on Economic Education, NCEE, and the Goldman Sachs Foundation, which created the Challenge in 2000 to promote student interest in economics, reinforce classroom instruction, advance academics, and reward scholarship. Preliminary rounds began in April with more than 3,600 students on over 700 teams participating in 33 State and 4 regional competitions. I commend the Hawaii Council on Economic Education for sponsoring the State-level competition in my State and, on a constant basis, training teachers and working to improve economic and financial literacy in Hawaii's schools. Student teams in the final round at the national level faced difficult questions on complex economic concepts and theories involving microeconomics, macroeconomics, international economics, and current events. The final round of the competition was held before a crowd of hundreds at the New York High School of Economics and Finance  in Manhattan. The Iolani team competed and placed second in their division, for which I congratulate them wholeheartedly. 
   As a former teacher and principal, I am aware of the many hours of work that these students dedicated to develop the necessary knowledge to participate in this national competition. They have surmounted many challenges at the State, regional and national levels, and have emerged with not only a placing finish to show for it, but also the experiences and memories of all they have learned along the way. Economic and financial education are crucial components needed to build our future leaders, and I applaud all students who participate in this competition for their hard work. 
   I am pleased to enter the names of the Iolani team members for the RECORD: Stephani Le, Kimberlee Collins, Kyle Sombrero, and Brando Inouye. I also take this opportunity to recognize their coach Richie Kibota for his contributions in helping the Iolani team prepare for the national competition. Of particular interest are their classmates and peers who rose to the same challenges, whose names I would also like to enter into the RECORD. This includes another Iolani School team who competed and placed at both State and regional levels in the Adam Smith division for advanced placement, international baccalaureate, and honors students, with team members Jeffrey Lawi, Brad Kawitaki, Ronald Kwok, Keone Nakoa, and Krystal Ching, and coach Dick Rankin. Also included are other Hawaii State participants: a third team from Iolani School and other teams from Kamehameha Schools, Maryknoll School, Kaimuki High School, and Nanakuli High and Intermediate School. 
   Again, I congratulate the students and the faculty of Iolani School, and I join the people of Hawaii in expressing my pride in their impressive achievements. It is these types of efforts that are supported by the Excellence in Economic Education Act, and these kinds of efforts that will ensure that our students and future leaders have the tools they need to make wise economic and financial decisions.  
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to join my colleagues Senators LIEBERMAN and COLLINS in introducing the Homeland Security Interagency and Interjurisdictional Information Sharing Act of 2004, a piece of legislation critical to improving the communication capabilities of first responders and among all levels of government. 
   One of the most important lessons our Nation learned on September 11 is that information sharing, both between agencies and levels of government and between emergency first responders, is critical to the prevention of and response to a terrorist attack on our homeland. There has been much talk about breaking down stove pipes and fully equipping our heroic first responders in the past 3 years, but this bill points out those goals have not yet been met. 
   The world watched as firefighters perished in the World Trade Center because their radios could not function inside the buildings and they did not have updated information about the imminent collapse of the towers. Ten months later it was reported that officers responding to a shooting at 
   Los Angeles International Airport missed crucial information because they were not using the same radio frequency. 
   Yet almost all cities and counties in the United States still lack an interoperable communications system today and many still lack the infrastructure to provide 100 percent coverage for the radio systems they do have. In my home State of Hawaii, first responders are unable to communicate through radios in 25 percent of the island of Hawaii because of a combination of lack of infrastructure and diverse geography. 
   This problem can be solved, but it will require a commitment of not only funding but planning, communication and cooperation. The current SAFECOM initiative, which is supposed to address the interoperability problem, has failed in most, if not all, of these areas. While this issue clearly cannot be solved by one agency alone, the cross-government nature of SAFECOM crippled the program from the start. SAFECOM is supposed to be funded by multiple agencies meaning that if one agency is not in agreement with the others it can withhold funding and slow or stop activities. This formula has proven ineffective. 
   The Homeland Security Interagency and Interjurisdictional Information Sharing Act will address these issues. The bill creates an Office of Information Sharing within the Department of Homeland Security to develop and implement a national strategy and provide the leadership, outreach, and technical assistance necessary to achieve interoperability. The new office would receive a direct line of funding for its operations as well as to provide grants to States and localities to develop interoperable networks. 
   The bill would also require the Secretary of Homeland Security to develop a Homeland Security Information Sharing Network. The problem of informational stove piping will not be eradicated with ad hoc measures as is the practice today. The administration must institutionalize a system of sharing critical homeland security information among all levels of government. We are no longer in a ``need to know'' world. We must switch to a ``need to share'' mentality. 
   Three years is too long for the lessons of September 11 to not be implemented. I urge my colleagues to support this important piece of legislation and I thank Senators LIEBERMAN and COLLINS for their work on this issue. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I rise to introduce the Federal Employee's Protection of Disclosures Act. Last year I introduced similar legislation, S. 1358, to amend employee safeguards for disclosing government waste, fraud, and abuse with the support of Senators GRASSLEY, LEVIN, LEAHY, DURBIN, DAYTON, PRYOR, JOHNSON, and LAUTENBERG.  
   Today, I am pleased that we can introduce a strong bipartisan version of this legislation with the additional support of Senators COLLINS, LIEBERMAN, FITZGERALD, and VOINOVICH. Thanks to the work of the bill's cosponsors, we have developed legislation that strikes the right balance between the protection of Federal whistleblowers and our national security. 
   As my colleagues know, the events of September 11, 2001, have brought renewed attention to the security lapses at our Nation's airports, nuclear facilities, borders, and law enforcement agencies. However, in many cases, the current whistleblower system fails to protect those who would disclose information that could ensure the safety and welfare of the American people. As of May 2004, Federal whistleblowers have prevailed on the merits of their claims before the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals only once since 1994. This record sends the wrong message. How can we expect civil servants to protect and defend the United States when we permit agencies to retaliate against them for doing their job? 
   I know the Department of Justice (DOJ) has objected to previous legislation concerning this problem. This comes as no surprise as the Department has an institutional conflict of interest with restoring whistleblower rights as it is charged with defending agencies charged with retaliating against the whistleblower. Nonetheless, I have worked with my colleagues on the Governmental Affairs Committee to address some the concerns raised by the Justice Department while still protecting federal employees. 
   One of the most significant changes in the bill relates to the protection of employees who find their security clearances stripped as a means of retaliation for blowing the whistle. Current law does not permit the whistleblower to have his or her case heard by an independent adjudicator when this type of retaliation occurs. 
   Under our bill, the whistleblower would be able to bring a case before the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) on an expedited basis when the employing agency revokes, suspends, denies, or makes another determination in relation to an employee's security clearance or access to classified materials. However, the employing agency need only prove by a preponderance of the evidence that it would have taken the action against the employee irrespective the whistleblower's disclosure. By lowering the burden of proof for the employing agency from clear and convincing, as is the standard with other whistleblower cases, to preponderance of the evidence, our legislation strikes a balance between having an open and transparent process for whistleblowers and the need to make security clearance or access determinations in the interests of national security. 
   The Department of Justice was also concerned with a provision in the prior bill, S. 1358, which granted independent litigating authority to the Special Counsel. In testimony before the Governmental Affairs Committee last November, the Department claimed that extending this authority to the Special Counsel would usurp DOJ's traditional unifying role as the Executive Branch's representative in court. The Department also claimed that the provision would undermine a number of important policy goals, including the presentation of uniform positions on significant legal issues and the objective litigation of cases by attorneys unaffected by concerns of a single agency that may be inimical to the interests of the Government as a whole. 
   However, many agencies have independent litigating authority, including the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the MSPB, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Federal Labor Relations Authority. Moreover, interagency disputes are not unique. It is inappropriate for the Office of Special Counsel (OSC), the agency charged with protecting the Whistleblower Protection Act (WPA), to seek approval from DOJ, the agency charged with protecting agencies alleged to have retaliated against whistleblowers, in order to carry out its mission. Nonetheless, our bill would not provide the Special Counsel with independent litigating authority but rather provide it with independent authority to file amicus briefs with federal courts. This authority will allow the Special Counsel to protect the WPA while addressing concerns raised by the Justice Department. 
   In addition, our compromise measure would still provide protection to whistleblowers subject to retaliatory investigations, but not for routine or non-discretionary investigations of the employee and codify the definition of reasonable belief an employee must have in order to determine when an employee has made a protected disclosure. I am pleased that our new bill, among other things, retains language restoring congressional intent regarding the definition of a protected disclosure, codifying the anti-gag provision that has been in every appropriations law since 1988, and establishing a more reasonable test for determining government mismanagement instead of irrefragable proof. According to the Federal Circuit, in order to determine that the federal government has engaged in gross mismanagement, the whistleblower must have irrefragable proof, meaning proof impossible to refute. 
   The bill also retains language, subject to a five-year sunset, providing whistleblowers the opportunity to have their cases heard by federal courts other than the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals. These provisions are necessary to facilitate disclosures of government mismanagement in order for Congress to do its job and make informed decisions when carrying out its legislative, appropriation, and oversight functions for the protection the American people. 
   Our government is responsible for services and programs that touch all  Americans. The Federal employees who carry out these responsibilities on behalf of the American people must be able to communicate with Congress without fear of losing their jobs when reporting threats to public health and safety and government mismanagement. We must have a credible and functioning WPA. I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan bill and ensure real protection for Federal whistleblowers. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I thank you very much for recognizing me.  
   I rise today to express my extreme disappointment, along with the Senator from Idaho, Mr. Craig, with the actions of the majority leader in preventing the consideration of amendments, including amendment No. 3547, the Native Hawaiian Government Reorganization Act of 2004. Senator Inouye and I filed this amendment in an effort to have our legislation considered by the Senate. 
   We have been working to enact this legislation now for the past 5 years. The Senate Committee on Indian Affairs has favorably reported this bill for the past three Congresses. Our legislation enjoys widespread support in Hawaii, and nationally also. We consider this a bipartisan measure. Our Governor supports it, our State legislature supports it, and a majority of our constituents support it. For 5 years we have worked to enact this bill which has effectively been blocked from Senate consideration by a few of our Senators who refuse to acknowledge native Hawaiians as indigenous peoples. 
   We have the votes to pass this legislation. In fact, I am confident that we have the votes to succeed on a motion to proceed to S. 344. I must at this point say that S. 344 has been cosponsored by my colleague who preceded me, my colleague from Utah, who is cosponsoring S. 344 as a freestanding version of my amendment. 
   Because of the kind of support we have here on both sides of the aisle, we are trying to have it considered. This is why we sought to have our legislation considered today--because we knew we could debate it quickly and pass it. I join my other colleagues in expressing my disappointment, again, with the procedural maneuvering that has occurred today. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. I yield back my time. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to focus on the challenges facing America's working families. Rising health care costs, increases in gasoline prices, and the lack of affordable housing have contributed to making the lives of working families more difficult as they strain to meet their day-to-day needs. The ability of these families to meet their increasing financial obligations is hampered by their significant debt burdens, particularly credit card debt, and by predatory lending practices such as refund anticipation loans. 
   Mr. President, too many families are becoming overwhelmed by their debts. In 2003, consumer debt increased for the first time to more than $2 trillion, and continued to increase in March, 2004, for the 12th straight month according to the Federal Reserve. A key component of household debt can be attributed to the use of credit cards. Revolving debt, mostly comprised of credit card debt, has more than doubled from $313 billion in January 1994 to $756 billion in March 2004. These debt burdens will increase as interest rates rise. Bankruptcy filings have surged to record levels. In 2003, more than 1.6 million consumers filed for bankruptcy, increasing by 2.8 percent in the 12 months ending on March 30, 2004. Many of these are middle class Americans who continue to work hard to make ends meet. 
   It is imperative that we make consumers more aware of the long-term effects of their financial decisions, particularly in managing their credit card debt. Obtaining credit has become easier. Students are offered credit cards at earlier ages, particularly since credit card companies have been successful with aggressive campaigns targeted towards college students. Universities and alumni associations across the country have entered into marketing agreements with credit card companies. For example, the University of Oklahoma will receive $13 million over 10 years in exchange for the exclusive ability to market credit cards to students, alumni, and employees, and to issue cards with the university's name. In this agreement, the school also receives 0.4 percent of every credit purchase. More than 1,000 universities and colleges have affinity cards which are made as attractive as possible through the opportunity to earn various benefits and discounts. College students make up a very ripe market for such credit and to boot are considered by some very good customers for lenders based on their payment patterns. Nina Prikazsky, Nellie Mae's Vice President of Operations, was quoted in the Chronicles of Higher Education as saying, ``Banks will take risks on young people the way they never would a decade ago, because they've discovered that students have become their best customers because they tend to make the minimum payments.'' Thus, college students, many already burdened with educational loans, are accumulating credit card debt. Forty-five percent of college students carry credit card debt, with the average debt over $3,000. 
   While it is relatively easy to obtain credit, especially on college campuses, not enough is being done to ensure that credit is properly managed. Currently, credit card statements fail to include all of the information necessary to allow individuals to make fully informed financial decisions. Mr. President, I recently introduced S. 2475, the Credit Card Minimum Payment Warning Act, along with Senators DURBIN, LEAHY, and SCHUMER. Our legislation will make it very clear what costs consumers incur if they make only the minimum payments on their credit cards. The personalized information consumers will receive for each of their credit card accounts will help them to make informed choices about the payments that they choose to make towards their balance. 
   The bill also requires that credit card companies provide useful information so that people can develop strategies to free themselves of credit card debt and have access to a toll-free number so that consumers can access trustworthy credit counselors. My bill represents sound legislation that aims to protect middle income and other families in this country. 
   Mr. President, the ability of families to survive financially is also hampered by predatory lending. Earned income tax credit, EITC, benefits intended for working families are increasingly being reduced by the growing use of refund anticipation loans, which typically carry triple digit interest rates. According to the Brookings Institution, an estimated $1.9 billion intended to assist low-income families was received by commercial tax preparers and affiliated national banks to pay for tax assistance, electronic filing of returns, and high-cost refund loans in 2002. The interest rates and fees charged on refund anticipation loans are not justified for the short length of time that these loans cover and the minimal risk they present. These loans do not carry much risk because of the Debt Indicator program. The Debt Indicator is a service provided by the Internal Revenue Service that informs the lender whether or not an applicant owes Federal or State taxes, child support, student loans, or other Government obligations, and this assists the tax preparer in ascertaining the applicant's ability to obtain their full refund so that the RAL is repaid. The Department of the Treasury should not be facilitating these predatory loans that allow tax preparers to reap outrageous profits that result from the exploitation of working families. More needs to be done to crack down on abusive refund anticipation loans and to provide additional opportunities for EITC families to access free tax preparation services. I appreciate the efforts of the Senate Finance Committee for incorporating several provisions of S. 685, the Low Income Taxpayer Protection Act, which Senator Bingaman and I introduced, into S. 882, the Tax Administration Good Government Act. One provision of special importance to me is an authorization for a grant program to link tax preparation services with the establishment of a bank or credit union account. Having a bank account allows individuals to receive their tax refund check faster than waiting for a paper check and without the need for using refund anticipation loans or check cashing services. It is important these provisions to provide additional consumer protections and expand opportunities of taxpayer assistance be enacted into law. We must work to provide alternatives to RALs and crack down on these exploitive loans. 
   Mr. President, unfortunately too many working families are susceptible to predatory lending because they are left out of the financial mainstream. Between 25 and 56 million adults are unbanked, or not using mainstream, insured financial institutions. The unbanked rely on alternative financial service providers to obtain cash from checks, pay bills, send remittances, utilize payday loans, and obtain credit. Many of the unbanked are low- and moderate-income families that can ill afford to have their earnings unnecessarily diminished by their reliance on these high-cost and often predatory financial services. In addition, the unbanked are unable to save securely to prepare for the loss of a job, a family illness, or a down payment on a first home or education expenses. 
   Mr. President, a Federal program, the First Accounts program, is intended to increase access for unbanked low- and moderate-income individuals to mainstream financial services. The program helps to offset the costs financial institutions incur in offering low-cost, electronic banking accounts. In addition, the program supports financial institution and nonprofit initiatives to provide financial education and counseling to low-income households. The First Accounts program has the potential for developing research into the financial services needs of low-income individuals and financial products designed to meet these needs. While the need is great, the President proposed in his fiscal year 2005 budget request to rescind the $4 million for the First Accounts program that had been previously appropriated in fiscal year 2002 and fiscal year 2003. I will continue to work with my colleagues to help preserve these funds for their intended purpose and bring people into the financial mainstream. 
   Mr. President, I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to help provide additional meaningful disclosure to consumers about their use of credit and expanding access to mainstream financial service opportunities. We owe it to our country's working families and their children. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the alarming incidence of U.S. contract funds being abused in Iraq. These violations range from the abandonment of vehicles, each worth $85,000, to significant project overruns involving tens of millions of tax dollars. The scope of these wasteful and fraudulent activities is both disturbing and unacceptable. 
   At this critical juncture in Iraq's rehabilitation, contractors and their administrators should be providing contracted services and goods with maximum efficiency. 
   As an American, I am proud of and thankful of the men and women who have traveled to Iraq to help restore this country. They risk their lives and, sadly, some have given their lives. However, stories of outright waste and fraud involving contract funds are deeply disturbing. 
   Three themes have emerged from the abuse of U.S. contracts in Iraq: task order violations, the absence of cost controls, and inconsistent oversight. 
   Numerous contract officers have used existing procurement or task orders to obtain services and goods beyond the scope of approved contracts. For instance, during December 2003, the Army acquired interrogators for Iraqi prisons via a contract marked for the Department of Interior information technology purchases. Interior contract officers negotiated interrogation services through an open-ended agreement laden with tenuous connections to technology. In such circumstances, new procurement items should only be obtained under open and fair competition. 
   The absence of consistent cost controls has also attributed to the misuse of contract funds. The General Accounting Office reports that a significant portion of task orders, associated with defense logistical support contracts in Iraq, have been granted without concrete specifications, deadlines, and prices. The prevalence of open-ended contracts have fueled inefficiency and numerous project overruns exceeding 100 percent. Unfortunately, the absence of a well-trained procurement workforce in Iraq has impeded efforts to counter these adverse outcomes. 
   In the presence of fragmented oversight, the misuse of contract funds has further escalated. Currently, the Coalition Provisional Authority, CPA, only has oversight of contracts associated with reconstruction and Task Order 44 of the U.S. Army's Logistical Operations Civil Acquisition Program, LOGCAP, which provides CPA logistical support, yet all other contractors in Iraq are audited by agency inspector General, IG, offices. It is anticipated that the challenges of fostering accountability will substantially increase after the handover of Iraq on June 30, 2004. The CPA IG reports that 60 days after the handover, CPA audit activities will be merged into the State Department's IG Office. This office will oversee all U.S. contracts in Iraq including those managed by the Department of Defense. Government officials forecast that this change  in audit authority will generate confusion at a time when consistent oversight is most needed. 
   The widespread misuse of contract funds in Iraq warrants Senate attention. During these financially lean times, it is unacceptable to tolerate such outright abuse of U.S. tax dollars. It is imperative that we demand greater accountability and efficiency, and immediately focus on this critical issue. Senate hearings would help identify sources of misuse and assist in developing viable remedies. This war has cost hundreds of lives and billions of dollars. We should not ignore the price being paid, and the debt incurred, by this generation and future generations in this conflict. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Public Land Protection and Conservation Act of 2004. I am pleased to have my esteemed colleagues Senator FRANK LAUTENBERG, Senator CARL LEVIN, Senator DIANNE FEINSTEIN, Senator DANIEL INOUYE, and Senator RON WYDEN cosponsoring the bill with me. This legislation encourages Federal, State, and local agencies, non-governmental entities, and Indian tribes to work together through a cost-shared, cooperative grant program to control the spread of terrestrial invasive species. The bill authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to provide state assessment grants to inventory and prioritize invasive species problems. It provides additional grants to control invasive species on Federal land or adjacent areas. And most importantly, it provides rapid response funds for states to eradicate serious new outbreaks. 
   Invasive species cause devastating environmental, human health, and economic consequences throughout the Nation and world. They are responsible for damage to native ecosystems and vital industries, such as agriculture, fisheries, and ranching. The impacts of invasive species are estimated to cost the United States at least $100 billion each year. Invasive species threaten the existence of 42 percent of threatened and endangered species in the United States, and this is an issue that must be confronted. 
   The implications of the nationwide invasive species problem are enormous. Nowhere, however, are the impacts greater than in my home State of Hawaii, which has always been known for its biodiversity. Approximately 11,000 species are believed to have evolved from roughly 20,000 ancestors that successfully colonized at a rate of one every 35,000 years. Today, 20 to 50 new nonnative species arrive in Hawaii every year. 
   In total, unwanted alien pests are entering Hawaii at a rate that is about  two million times more rapid than the natural rate. Nonnative, invasive species comprise roughly 20 percent of the plants and animals in Hawaii. Invasive species are the number one cause of the decline of Hawaii's threatened and endangered species. This is a serious concern because Hawaii has more than 10,000 species found nowhere else on Earth. Of the 114 endangered species that have become extinct in the first 20 years of the Endangered Species Act, almost one-half were in Hawaii. The fragility of our native species is compounded by the fact that most introduced species have no natural predators in the state. 
   Let me give you just a few examples of invasive species problems in Hawaii. Control efforts for the Formosan ground termite are estimated to cost residents in Hawaii more than $150 million per year. Damage to our agricultural industry and the related control costs of the Mediterranean fruit fly are more than $450 million annually. Native birds in our rainforests are succumbing to malaria spread through introduced mosquitos. 
   Coqui frogs, accidentally imported on plants to Hawaii, can reach densities of 8,000 frogs per acre. Each one can produce a call at 90 decibels. The noise from 8,000 frogs at 90 decibels is equivalent to listening to a high-pitched jackhammer all night! Infestations of frogs are lowering property values and threatening Hawaii's export floriculture and nursery industries. Coqui frogs also consume more than 48,000 prey items per acre per night, depleting the food supply for threatened and endangered birds and spiders. Miconia, an invasive tree infesting over 15,000 acres of rainforest in Hawaii, eliminates the habitat of endangered plants and animals and causes serious erosion problems that threaten the water supply. 
   Miconia has overwhelmed all other species on these mountainsides. Miconia, like many invasives, is a major threat to native biodiversity. 
   The brown tree snake has invaded Guam and devastated native bird populations there. If it were to become established in Hawaii, economic costs have been estimated to exceed hundreds of millions of dollars. 
   Agriculture in Hawaii is threatened by the spread of the red imported fire ant, a serious problem in 14 southern states causing over $2 billion in annual damage. As you can see, the time to address the issue of invasive species is now, before there are even more serious problems. 
   My bill, the Public Land Protection and Conservation Act, authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to provide grants to states, nonprofit, and tribal entities to assess, control, and eradicate invasive species. There are three types of grants in this bill, one of which requires matching funds. 
   First, this legislation provides grants to states for assessment projects to identify, quantify, and prioritize invasive species threats. This step is a critical underpinning for invasives programs, but many states do not have the resources to carry out this assessment. 
   Second, the control grants supply appropriate public or private entities or Indian tribes with funding to carry out, in partnership with a Federal agency, an eradication, containment, or management project on Federal land or adjacent land. Control projects would receive a higher ranking for funding based on shared priorities in state and Federal plans, the extensiveness or severity of the invasive species impacts in a state, and whether the project fosters results through public-private partnerships, among other criteria. 
   Control grants are cost-shared with states. A maximum of 75 percent of funding shall be federally provided for control projects on adjacent land, with the exception of pilot or demonstration projects, or projects that conserve threatened or endangered species, which shall receive 85 percent federal funding. The Federal share of control projects carried out on Federal land shall be 100 percent. 
   Finally, rapid response funds, designated for States facing new outbreaks of invasive species, will provide timely resources to eradicate these organisms before they gain a foothold. Rapid response funds are critical to States in order to combat newly identified invasives. 
   The impacts of invasive species are already costing the United States an estimated $100 billion each year. The Department of the Interior, in its FY 2005 budget request acknowledges that invasive species pose an enormous threat to the ecological and economic health of the Nation. The Department states that the economic costs associated with invasive species are enormous already, and increasing. The Department of the Interior and U.S. Forest Service together received approximately $126 million in FY 2004, and the combined FY 2005 request is identical. Although I applaud the current efforts of the Department of the Interior and the U.S. Forest Service, we need a more coordinated attack on invasive species. The attack must have robust funding if we are to work in partnership with the states. 
   An estimated 5,000 to 6,000 invasive species are established in the United States. With 73 percent of the continental United States held in private lands, our Federal lands will not be adequately protected without public-private partnerships because invasive species know no boundaries. 
   My bill requires coordination between the National Invasive Species Council, the Department of the Interior, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and state invasive species councils and plans. It provides the support necessary for agencies, organizations, and individuals to implement cooperative projects to address new threats and long-standing invasive species problems. 
   I am particularly pleased that the State of Hawaii is taking a leadership role in addressing invasive species problems as our State is intimately familiar with the serious impacts. Hawaii's Department of Land and Natural Resources, the State government, and each county's Invasive Species Councils are committed to a proactive approach to preserve the environmental heritage and economic security of our communities for generations to come. Each of these Councils now coordinates their activities on the State level through the formation of the Hawaii Invasive Species Council in 2003. 
   In addition to the Council, many public and private partnerships have been formed to protect our common natural resources. The East Maui Watershed Partnership brings together multiple public and private landowners and the County of Maui to control invasive species and protect 100,000 acres of our prime watershed areas. This is just one example of many highly successful and dedicated partnerships in Hawaii working to preserve our invaluable resources. 
   This legislation is supported by the State of Hawaii's Department of Land and Natural Resources, which has primary responsibility for land use, forests, wildlife and oceans. In his letter of support, the Chairperson of the DLNR, Mr. Peter Young, states that ``Increasing success in invasive species projects in Hawaii has come largely from the formation of strong partnerships between State, County and Federal agencies and private groups.'' The intent of this bill is to encourage partnerships like the East Maui Watershed Partnership and the Hawaii Invasives Species Council in their fight against invasives. 
   Most recently, the Hawaii State Legislature allocated $4 million of the $5 million requested by Governor Linda Lingle to support the Invasive Species Prevention and Control program. This request is part of the overall state proposal to earmark $20 million over the next four years. These actions demonstrate Hawaii's commitment to the problem. This money, however, is clearly not sufficient to control the nonnative species in Hawaii. 
   Despite their best efforts to reduce the devastation caused by invasive species, states lack the needed funds to adequately address this issue. The General Accounting Office (GAO) issued a report on September 5, 2003, documenting gaps and barriers in Federal invasive species legislation. The number one barrier identified in the report was insufficient Federal funding for state efforts to control invasive species. Another barrier identified was the inadequate amount of general information and research on invasive species. My legislation will provide States the desperately needed funding to start a serious battle against invasive species. 
   The GAO report also recommended authorizing the National Invasive Species Council as the most effective leadership structure for managing invasive species. I applaud Senators LEVIN and  DEWINE for addressing this issue in legislation they have introduced during the 108th Congress, the National Aquatic Invasive Species Act of 2003. I am a cosponsor of their bill, S. 525, because aquatic invasives are important in Hawaii. I am also a cosponsor of Senator LARRY CRAIG's Noxious Weed Control Act of 2003, S. 144, that focuses on terrestrial weeds. My bill, 
   the Public Land Protection and Conservation Act of 2004, will fill a needed gap by addressing all invasive organisms, flora and fauna, in and around federal lands through public-private partnerships. 
   The National Environmental Coalition on Invasive Species, a coalition of representatives from major environmental organizations, has extended its full support for this legislation. Its letter of support calls this bill ``one of the best legislative proposals to date to deal with the growing threat that invasive species pose to our nation's ecological and economic health.'' The bill is also supported by The Conservation Council of Hawaii, the National Wildlife Federation affiliate in Hawaii. I greatly appreciate their endorsements. 
   Lastly, I want to acknowledge my colleague in the House, Representative NICK RAHALL, for recognizing the gaps in national legislation for controlling and eradicating invasive species on Federal and adjacent lands through cooperative grants. He introduced H.R. 2310, the Species Protection and Conservation of the Environment Act, on June 3, 2003. His legislation provided a solid blueprint that inspired my bill, and I am eager to join him in the eradication of invasive species on Federal and adjacent lands. 
   There are increasingly severe problems and economic burdens associated with invasive species in our nation. Federal support to states to combat this problem at the ground level is crucial. If ever there was a time to commit to defending the security of our domestic resources for the future, it is now. 
   I ask unanimous consent that text of the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, the Senate report accompanying National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 included language on a program to  demonstrate proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cell designs at Department of the Navy installations. In particular, the language referred to an uninterruptible substation using fuel cells based on proton exchange membrane technology. This was a program that the Congress supported last year. 
   I believe that the program the Committee intended to support this year was somewhat more narrowly focused on the developing technology to improve the membranes for those fuel cells that might be used in the substation program that was the subject of discussion last year or for other important Defense Department applications. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the amendment offered by Senators KENNEDY and FEINSTEIN to prohibit the use of funds for the support of new nuclear weapons development. 
   Passage of this amendment would ensure that the United States will not develop new nuclear weapons while at the same time asking other nations to give up their own weapons development programs. 
   Unfortunately, today we live in a world where governments and terrorists are seeking to create and acquire weapons of mass destruction. I am deeply concerned that we are not doing enough to stop the potential flow of weapons and weapon materials to terrorist organizations. Rather than devoting scarce resources to researching new nuclear weapons we should be securing nuclear material already in existence. 
   The administration's plans to develop new weapons and modify old types of weapons will compromise U.S. security by undermining efforts to make worldwide cooperation on nonproliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction, WMD, more effective. 
   The first Bush administration prohibited work on nuclear weapons then under development and halted nuclear testing except for safety and reliability, effectively bringing work on new weapons types to a close. 
   In contrast, I believe this administration's nuclear initiatives are creating a new kind of arms race by expanding our weapon development programs. 
   The United States pledged in the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty ``to pursue negotiations in good faith on effective measures relating to cessation of the nuclear arms race at an early date and to nuclear disarmament.'' This is still a worthy objective. 
   However, instead of strengthening nonproliferation efforts, the administration has requested $27.6 million for the Robust Nuclear Earth Penetrator, RNEP, for fiscal year 2005. The request would continue a study to modify an existing weapon to penetrate completely into the ground before detonating, increasing its ability to destroy buried targets. 
   The RNEP is a bad idea for a number of reasons. First, it is a common misconception that a weapon detonated a few meters underground creates less fallout. In fact, a weapon detonated at a shallow depth would actually create more fallout than if it were detonated on the surface. 
   Nuclear testing done in the 1960s demonstrated that weapons detonated deep underground can produce large amounts of fallout. In order to prevent this during underground testing done at the Nevada Test Site, detonations were required to be at least 600 feet underground, with no vertical shaft open to the atmosphere. This scenario cannot happen in a battlefield situation. 
   We do not have the ability to drive a weapon down to the depths that would be required to prevent huge quantities of fallout from occurring, and even if we did, the hole created by the weapon would allow the fallout to escape to the atmosphere. Even a low-yield RNEP would kill large numbers of people from both the blast and from the inevitable fallout that would follow. 
   The RNEP study was initially projected to cost $45 million--$15 million a year for fiscal year 2003-2005. It is now projected to cost $71 million, which is too much money to research a weapon that in many ways duplicates what conventional weapons can do already. 
   Additionally, the budget request includes figures through fiscal year 2009 that total $484.7 million and includes placeholders for both the development-engineering and production-engineering phases. This may indicate that the RNEP study is more than just a study and is in fact being undertaken with the foregone conclusion that the weapon will go into development. This amendment would effectively stop funding for this weapon. 
   The administration argues that these weapons programs are needed to increase deterrence from a new kind of threat. I do not believe these weapons will deter other nations or terrorists. If other nations see the U.S. developing new nuclear weapons, they are likely to think that they need new weapons for their security as well. 
   We already know that terrorists are trying to acquire nuclear weapons. Director of Central Intelligence, George Tenet, warned the Armed Services Committee once again in March of al-Qaida interest in chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear, CBRN, weapons. 
   Director Tenet said, ``Acquiring these remains a `religious obligation' in Bin Ladin's eyes, and al-Qaida and more than two dozen other terrorist groups are pursuing CBRN materials. Over the last year, we've also seen an increase in the threat of more sophisticated CBRN. For this reason, we take very seriously the threat of a CBRN attack.'' We cannot afford this risk. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the Kennedy-Feinstein amendment to stop funding new nuclear weapons development programs. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I recognize the efforts of Ms. Carol Madonna, a Brookings Institution LEGIS fellow, who has been a tremendous asset to me and my office during the past 18 months. Over the past year and a half, Carol has assisted me with fulfilling my responsibilities as a member of the Senate Committees on Armed Services and Veterans' Affairs. She has worked many long hours to address issues of concern to our men and women in the military, veterans, and Federal employees. 
   Mr. President, Carol Madonna is an excellent example of a dedicated Federal employee. She is always willing to pitch in and provide assistance. She is a very quick learner and an extremely hard worker. She adapts quickly to changing circumstances and is always responsive to situations. From early bird breakfasts with Pentagon officials to late vote evenings in the Senate, Carol was an invaluable member of my legislative staff and a quick study on the diverse and competing priorities that arise in the Senate on a regular basis. Her professionalism and dedication to getting the job done reflects well on the Defense Supply Center- Philadelphia, an agency within the Defense Logistics Agency, where Carol has been employed for the past 22 years. 
   Mr. President, Carol Madonna has many accomplishments that are worthy of mention. She is most proud, however, of her two sons, Dan Madonna, a teacher in Philadelphia, and Lee Madonna, who is about to receive his Associate's Degree from Delaware County Community College. As much as my staff and I will miss Carol, we wish her well as she joins her family in Philadelphia, and thank her for her wonderful service to the people of Hawaii and this great Nation. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I rise in the spirit of thanksgiving and pride as I stand in the Chamber with others who have served in World War II. I thank this body for the honor they have given all of us. But I say thanksgiving because I thank God. I thank God for being here. I thank God for being a part of this body. I thank my ma and my pa for bringing me into this world. I thank my wife Millie and my family for the support they have given me. I thank my buddies who served with me and trained with me in World War II. 
   I thank God for setting a new course not only for me but for our country. Because of World War II, we saw our country changing itself from being very prejudicial to being forgiving, and setting a new course not only for our country but for the world. 
   When I think of what helped me after I left the Army, I used the GI Bill of Rights program. That was, for me, one of the greatest programs. I would say that each of us here have benefited by using that to go to college. As a result of that, we were able to set our professions and eventually be elected to the Senate. But things have changed not only in our lives but in our country and the world. When I think of our country and how it has benefited from World War II, other countries, such as Germany, have also benefited from World War II. Japan has benefited from World War II. It has really changed the world. 
   So I thank God, my family, my buddies, and my colleagues here especially for the kind words and sentiments that have been given tonight. I feel proud to be part of this esteemed body. I thank my colleagues again and our leadership for this recognition. I want them to know that I am proud to have served our country. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Virginia. He has been a great leader in our country for our Armed Forces. He has served our country well. He has been a Secretary of the Navy, now chairman of the Armed Services Committee. I tell him, as one member of that committee, that I respect what he is doing. He is doing a great job for the country. He has been up with the sensitive issues that our country faces and has called these hearings that have been very important in clarifying what is happening with our armed services in Iraq and around the world. I commend him highly for what he is doing. I thank him for all of that. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Credit Card Minimum Payment Warning Act. I greatly appreciate the significant contributions Senator DURBIN made to this  bill, and I thank him very much for that. Also, I thank Senator LEAHY and Senator SCHUMER for cosponsoring this legislation. 
   Americans are carrying enormous amounts of debt. In 2003, consumer debt increased for the first time to more than $2 trillion, according to the Federal Reserve. This is a 28-percent increase since the year 2000. According to the Daily Bankruptcy News, consumer debt is now equal to 110 percent of disposable income. Ten years ago, it was 85 percent; and 20 years ago, it was 65 percent. A key component of household debt can be attributed to the use of credit cards. Revolving debt, mostly comprised of credit card debt, has more than doubled from $313 billion in January 1994 to $753 billion in debt in January 2004. A U.S. Public Interest Research Group and Consumer Federation of America analysis of Federal Reserve data indicates that the average household with debt carries approximately $10,000 to $12,000 in total revolving debt and has nine credit cards. 
   More and more working families are trying to meet growing financial obligations and are having difficulties surviving financially. When interest rates do eventually rise, consumers' increasing debt obligations will be compounded further. 
   As household debt has increased, bankruptcy filings have surged to record levels. In the year 2003, more than 1.6 million consumers filed for bankruptcy. This staggering amount is an increase of 5.6 percent over the previous record set in 2002. Bankruptcies disrupt the lives of consumers and limit their ability to access credit in the future. In addition, bankruptcies lead to 
   significant financial losses for creditors. It is imperative that we make consumers more aware of the long-term effects of their financial decisions, particularly in managing their credit card debt, so that they can avoid bankruptcy. 
   Even as we contemplate the consequences of more and more debt, it has become easier to access credit. Pre-approved credit card offers are now a routine piece of mail. Students are offered credit cards at earlier ages, especially in view of the success that credit card companies are having with their aggressive campaigns targeted towards college students. Mr. President, 55 percent of college students acquire their first credit card during their first year in college, and 83 percent of college students have at least one credit card. Forty-five percent of college students are in credit card debt, with the average debt being over $3,000. 
   While it is relatively easy to obtain credit, not enough is done to ensure that credit is properly managed. Currently, credit card statements fail to include all of the information necessary to allow individuals to make fully informed financial decisions. Additional disclosure is needed to ensure that individuals completely understand the implications of their credit card use. 
   Our legislation will provide a wakeup call for consumers. It will make it very clear what costs consumers will incur if they make only the minimum payments on their credit cards. The personalized information they will receive for each of their accounts will help them to make informed choices about the payments that they choose to make towards their balance. 
   This bill requires a minimum payment warning notification on monthly statements stating that making the minimum payment will increase the amount of interest that will be paid and extend the amount of time it will take to repay the outstanding balance. Consumers would have to be informed of how many years and months it will take to repay their entire balance if they make only the minimum payments. In addition, the total costs in interest and principal, if the consumer pays only the minimum payment, would have to be disclosed. These provisions will make individuals much more aware of the true costs of their credit card debts. 
   The bill also requires that credit card companies provide useful information so that people can develop strategies to free themselves of credit card debt. Consumers would have to be provided with the amount they need to pay to eliminate their outstanding balance within 36 months. Finally, the legislation would require that creditors establish a toll-free number so that consumers can access trustworthy credit counselors. In order to ensure that consumers are referred from the toll-free number to only trustworthy organizations, the agencies for referral would have to be approved by the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Reserve Board as having met comprehensive quality standards. These standards are necessary because certain credit counseling agencies have abused their nonprofit, tax-exempt status and have taken advantage of people seeking assistance in managing their debts. People believe, sometimes mistakenly, that they can place blind trust in nonprofit organizations and that their fees will be lower than those of other credit counseling organizations. 
   Too many individuals may not realize that the credit counseling industry does deserve the trust that consumers often place in it. 
   The Credit Card Minimum Payment Warning Act has been endorsed by the Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, and U.S. Public Interest Research Group. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the letter of support and factsheet from these organizations be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation that will empower consumers by providing them with detailed personalized information to assist them in making informed choices about their credit card use and repayment. This bill makes clear the adverse consequences of uninformed choices, such as making only minimum payments, and provides opportunities to locate assistance to eliminate credit card debt. 
   S. 2475 
    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, 
   SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 
    This Act may be cited as the ``Credit Card Minimum Payment Warning Act''. 
   SEC. 2. ENHANCED CONSUMER DISCLOSURES REGARDING MINIMUM PAYMENTS. 
    Section 127(b) of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1637(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
    ``(11)(A) Information regarding repayment of the outstanding balance of the consumer under the account, appearing in conspicuous type on the front of the first page of each such billing statement, and accompanied by an appropriate explanation, containing-- 
    ``(i) the words `Minimum Payment Warning: Making only the minimum payment will increase the amount of interest that you pay and the time it will take to repay your outstanding balance.'; 
    ``(ii) the number of years and months (rounded to the nearest month) that it would take for the consumer to pay the entire amount of that balance, if the consumer pays only the required minimum monthly payments; 
    ``(iii) the total cost to the consumer, shown as the sum of all principal and interest payments, and a breakdown of the total costs in interest and principal, of paying that balance in full if the consumer pays only the required minimum monthly payments, and if no further advances are made; 
    ``(iv) the monthly payment amount that would be required for the consumer to eliminate the outstanding balance in 36 months if no further advances are made; and 
    ``(v) a toll-free telephone number at which the consumer may receive information about accessing credit counseling and debt management services. 
    ``(B)(i) Subject to clause (ii), in making the disclosures under subparagraph (A) the creditor shall apply the interest rate in effect on the date on which the disclosure is made.
    ``(ii) If the interest rate in effect on the date on which the disclosure is made is a temporary rate that will change under a contractual provision specifying a subsequent interest rate or applying an index or formula for subsequent interest rate adjustment, the creditor shall apply the interest rate in effect on the date on which the disclosure is made for as long as that interest rate will apply under that contractual provision, and then shall apply the adjusted interest rate, as specified in the contract. If the contract applies a formula that uses an index that varies over time, the value of such index on the date on which the disclosure is made shall be used in the application of the formula.''. 
   SEC. 3. ACCESS TO CREDIT COUNSELING AND DEBT MANAGEMENT INFORMATION.
    (a) GUIDELINES REQUIRED.--
    (1) IN GENERAL.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Trade Commission (in this section referred to as the ``Board'' and the ``Commission'', respectively) shall jointly, by rule, regulation, or order, issue guidelines for the establishment and maintenance by creditors of a toll-free telephone number for purposes of the disclosures required under section 127(b)(11) of the Truth in Lending Act, as added by this Act.
    (2) APPROVED AGENCIES.--Guidelines issued under this subsection shall ensure that referrals provided by the toll-free number include only those agencies approved by the Board and the Commission as meeting the criteria under this section.
    (b) CRITERIA.--The Board and the Commission shall only approve a nonprofit budget and credit counseling agency for purposes of this section that--
    (1) demonstrates that it will provide qualified counselors, maintain adequate provision  for safekeeping and payment of client funds, provide adequate counseling with respect to client credit problems, and deal responsibly and effectively with other matters relating to the quality, effectiveness, and financial security of the services it provides;
    (2) at a minimum--
    (A) is registered as a nonprofit entity under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
    (B) has a board of directors, the majority of the members of which--
    (i) are not employed by such agency; and
    (ii) will not directly or indirectly benefit financially from the outcome of the counseling services provided by such agency;
    (C) if a fee is charged for counseling services, charges a reasonable and fair fee, and provides services without regard to ability to pay the fee;
    (D) provides for safekeeping and payment of client funds, including an annual audit of the trust accounts and appropriate employee bonding;
    (E) provides full disclosures to clients, including funding sources, counselor qualifications, possible impact on credit reports, any costs of such program that will be paid by the client, and how such costs will be paid;
    (F) provides adequate counseling with respect to the credit problems of the client, including an analysis of the current financial condition of the client, factors that caused such financial condition, and how such client can develop a plan to respond to the problems without incurring negative amortization of debt;
    (G) provides trained counselors who--
    (i) receive no commissions or bonuses based on the outcome of the counseling services provided;
    (ii) have adequate experience; and
    (iii) have been adequately trained to provide counseling services to individuals in financial difficulty, including the matters described in subparagraph (F);
    (H) demonstrates adequate experience and background in providing credit counseling;
    (I) has adequate financial resources to provide continuing support services for budgeting plans over the life of any repayment plan; and
    (J) is accredited by an independent, nationally recognized accrediting organization. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President. I am delighted to join with Senator Collins and other colleagues on the Governmental Affairs Committee to introduce the Thrift Savings Plan Open Elections Act of 2004. Our bill will provide participants in the Thrift Savings Plan, TSP, significant flexibility in managing their TSP accounts. 
   Over the years, I have successfully offered legislation which has ensured that Federal employees enrolled in the Government's retirement savings plan enjoy the same opportunities afforded to employees in the private and public sectors, such as the ability to make additional contributions to the TSP for those over the age of 50 and immediate enrollment for new employees. This new bill would eliminate open seasons, which prohibit employees who choose not to contribute to wait until for a specific amount of time if they later decide to participate. 
   I am especially pleased that the legislation also includes a section devoted to enhancing financial literacy for Federal employees. As my colleagues know, I have long championed the need for expanded financial literacy for Americans of all ages and background who face increasingly complex financial decisions as members of the Nation's workforce, managers of their families' resources, and voting citizens. 
   Our bill directs the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, FRTIB, which administers the TSP, to enhance the tools available to TSP participants so that they will be better able to understand, evaluate, and compare the financial products, services, and opportunities available from the Thrift Savings Plan. The measure also requires that as part of the retirement training offered by the Office of Personnel Management, OPM, that OPM, in consultation with the board, develop a retirement financial literacy and education strategy for Federal employees. I wish to commend both the thrift board and OPM for the work that has already been undertaken to increase financial literacy among Federal employees, including the recent OPM-sponsored financial literacy fairs. 
   As for all Americans, financial literacy education is essential for Federal employees to develop a base of knowledge so that they can participate effectively in the modern economy. We must find opportunities to get information to individuals at the appropriate times throughout their lives as their financial situations and needs change. I believe that the provisions in this bill will give Federal employees the tools needed to empower them to make informed decisions regarding their retirement and financial security. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to cosponsor this legislation. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the fiscal year 2005 Defense authorization bill. I want to first commend Chairman Warner and Senator Levin, who have continued their tradition of strong and bipartisan leadership. I also want to thank my friend, colleague and subcommittee chairman Senator Ensign, for his cooperation and leadership throughout this process this year. 
   While I think the bill before us goes a long way to supporting the needs of our service men and women, I do want to highlight a few concerns. 
   First, I am pleased that the administration finally followed Congress' lead and sent a request for an additional $25 billion to begin to address the ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan for the first few months of fiscal year 2005. While I do not support the structure of the administration's request, in part because it does not do enough to ensure accountability for how these funds would be used, I do support its intent, and I think it is imperative that we include an authorization of additional funding in the final version of this bill. 
   Second, while I support every action to aid our brave men and women in the armed forces, who are making so many sacrifices as they fight for our freedoms, I am concerned and disappointed by some of the actions we have taken in the bill we are reporting to the Senate. My greatest concern lies, as it did last year, in the reductions we have made in the working capital funds of the military services and defense agencies. While I disagreed with the cuts in these accounts last year, the ones this year are even more harmful, as DOD is already tapping these accounts to the greatest possible extent to get through the remainder of this fiscal year. So they will already be well below normal cash balances as they enter fiscal year 2005, and the $1.6 billion in reductions we have recommended in this bill will increase the risk of readiness problems by decreasing DOD's ability to provide spare parts, maintenance, and other support for our forces that are critical to their continued success. By cutting into these accounts, I believe we are sending a message that we do not support our troops, a message that I know could not be further from the truth. 
   Our forces deserve armored vehicles to protect them in Iraq, but they also deserve the spare parts they need to keep those vehicles running. When our troops come home, they deserve to have those vehicles repaired, rather than wait for maintenance from a depot until parts arrive that could have been ordered earlier if the working capital funds had had sufficient cash. We owe them the courage to make tough decisions to ensure that those needs are met now, not when future funds not yet requested may or may not become available. 
   On the positive side, I am pleased about our continued support for military construction and family housing  needs that are so critical to quality of life for our service men and women. I also support many of the provisions we have included that will further improve the management of the department. I particularly appreciate the bipartisan effort that the staff has made to address a wide range of procurement issues, environmental issues, and longstanding DOD financial management problems. 
   While I support the overall actions taken in this bill, and commend all of my colleagues for the hard work that they have invested, as ranking member of the Readiness Subcommittee I have mixed feelings about our actions. We have increased funding for some key programs, but at the expense of others where the impact might be more easily obscured. Our experience with the Air Force over the last few years has shown that there is a direct correlation between increased spare parts and mission capable rates for aircraft; those spare parts are provided through the Air Force Working Capital Fund. The Navy expects to have only a few days of cash on hand at the end of this fiscal year, and may be forced to bill customers before they actually receive their orders. And the Army faces a situation where its orders for parts and other key items exceed its cash on hand by more than 700 percent. Wartime, when we see a great expansion of customer needs for readiness and large fluctuations in required support, is not the time to take on more readiness risk by decreasing cash balances in the working capital funds. It hurts readiness, and it hurts the men and women who serve in uniform. 
   By reducing funding for the readiness accounts and failing to provide any supplemental funding for 2005, this bill does not do enough to meet the most pressing needs of our men and women in uniform. 
   I will support this bill, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. I think it is a good bill that could have been better, and I will continue to work throughout the rest of the authorization process to improve it. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am pleased to join with Senator Collins and Senator Carper, who today have introduced the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act. I commend both of my Governmental Affairs Committee colleagues for their leadership in crafting a postal reform bill. 
   For some time, the General Accounting Office has warned that the long-term financial outlook for the U.S. Postal Service was at risk without significant changes. At the request of the Governmental Affairs Committee, the U.S. Postal Service developed a transformation plan that offered its vision for the future. Late in 2002, a Presidential Postal Commission was convened, which issued a number of recommendations in 2003. 
   Over the past 6 months, I have participated in a series of hearings chaired by Senator Collins which examined the recommendations of the Postal Commission. I commend Senator Collins for guaranteeing that the divergent views were seriously considered throughout our eight hearings. I also wish to commend my colleague from Delaware, Senator Carper, for his strong and early commitment to postal reform. 
   I support modernizing the U.S. Postal Service to ensure that its mission of providing 6 days a week universal service at an affordable rate is preserved. Although the legislation introduced today responds to many of the recommendations and concerns we heard in our hearings, it wisely rejects others. However, like most bills, there are provisions that trouble me. I am particularly concerned with the sections relating to worksharing and changes to the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA). I will continue to work with the bill's sponsors to address these provisions, which I believe do not promote cost savings for the Postal Service or fairness for postal workers. 
   I look forward to working with my colleagues on this legislation to guarantee that the U.S. Postal Service will be in position to best serve the public in the 21st century, be a model employer, and protect the retirement future of its employees. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today as a proud cosponsor to express my support of legislation introduced by Senators BINGAMAN, INHOFE, LANDRIEU, and LUGAR which would establish separate campaign medals to be awarded to those members of the Armed Forces who participate in Operation Enduring Freedom, OEF, and Operation Iraqi Freedom, OIF. 
   Campaign medals in the United States have a long history and date back to George Washington's time when he received a gold medal from Congress for the recovery of Boston on March 17, 1776. By 1907, members of the Army were wearing newly issued campaign medals, and by 1908, the Navy and Marine Corps began to recognize exemplary service with campaign medals. 
   During World War II a series of area campaign medals were authorized for service in the American Theater, the Asiatic-Pacific Theater, and the European-African-Middle Eastern Theater of the war. These medals were the same for all services and inaugurated a trend that exists today by recognizing the valor and service of military members involved in specific difficult deployments. 
   I had the privilege of traveling to Iraq and Afghanistan in March 2004 where I met many of our men and women proudly serving our nation. It was an honor for me to witness their dedication to duty and country. While our Nation is engaged in a global war on terrorism, it is clear that our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines are engaged in distinct operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. Some of them have served in both operations and deserve separate medals. 
   Campaign medals were specifically designed to recognize the service of military members in specific operations during a period of active hostilities. Service men and women deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan deserve this distinctive honor. I fully support this bill which would establish campaign medals for members of the Armed Forces who participate in Operation Enduring Freedom or Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to address a growing problem in my home State of Hawaii and the Nation, individuals that do not have health insurance. The total number of uninsured people in the United States reached 43.6 million in 2002. Since 2000, the total number of uninsured has increased by 3.8 million. In the State of Hawaii, it is estimated that there are approximately 120,000 people who do not have health insurance. 
   The uninsured delay seeking medical treatment, which is likely to lead to more significant and more costly problems later on than if they had sought earlier, preventative treatment or proper disease management. Health insurance is essential to making sure that individuals can access health care services and properly manage their chronic diseases, such as diabetes. A tremendous amount of needless pain and suffering can be eliminated by ensuring that health insurance is universally available. 
   Everyone should have access to affordable health insurance. We must expand Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program, SCHIP, to provide essential access to health care for more people. In addition, we must take steps to help rein in health care costs in an attempt to keep coverage affordable. Providing additional resources for disease management programs and primary health care services will lead to long-term savings and benefits. Also, meaningful prescription drug patent law reforms need to be made to ensure that generic drugs can be brought to market in a timely manner. 
   We are also obligated to help provide support to health care providers that provide uncompensated care for the uninsured. In Hawaii, it is estimated that hospitals lost $95 million for uncompensated care in 2002. However, while other states benefit from Medicaid disproportionate share hospital, DSH, payments designed to provide additional support to hospitals that treat large numbers of Medicaid and uninsured patients, Hawaii is left out of this important program. 
   The Balanced Budget Act of 1997, BBA, created specific DSH allotments for each state based on each of their actual DSH expenditures for fiscal year 1995. In 1994, the State of Hawaii implemented the QUEST demonstration program that was designed to reduce the number of uninsured and improve access to health care. The prior Medicaid DSH program was incorporated into QUEST. As a result of the demonstration program, Hawaii did not have DSH expenditures in 1995 and was not provided a DSH allotment. 
   The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 made further changes to the DSH program, which included the establishment of a floor for DSH allotments. However, States without allotments were again left out. Other States that have obtained waivers similar to Hawaii's have retained their DSH allotments. Only two States, Hawaii and Tennessee, do not have DSH allotments. I was disappointed that language similar to an amendment that I had offered, which was accepted as part of the manager's package for the Senate's prescription drug bill was not included in the conference report for H.R. 1, the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003. The language that was finally included prevents Hawaii from obtaining its DSH allotment as long as the QUEST program remains in place. 
   Medicaid DSH funding is needed because our hospitals in Hawaii are struggling to meet the elevated demands placed upon them by the increasing number of uninsured people. DSH payments will help Hawaii hospitals meet the rising health care needs of our communities and reinforce our health care safety net. All 50 States need to have access to Medicaid DSH support. 
   While Hawaii continues to be denied this assistance, many States fail to fully utilize their DSH allotments. For fiscal year 1999, more than $1.2 billion was returned to the Treasury because States failed to draw down their full Medicaid DSH allotments. More than $800 million was returned to the Treasury for fiscal year 2000. It is unfair that while certain States are declining to use their full allocation, States with no or small allotments are being denied the use of these resources. A viable option to provide relief for Hawaii and other low-DSH States is to redistribute funding that other States have returned to the Treasury. It is not fair that States that either lack any DSH funding or have low-DSH allotments cannot have an opportunity to apply for these excess funds to help bolster their public health safety net. 
   I appreciate all of the work done by my colleague from New Mexico, Senator Bingaman, to help provide relief to low-DSH States. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to help restore Medicaid DSH payments to Hawaii. Also, we must continue our efforts to improve access to health care so that everyone can obtain affordable, comprehensive, and quality health care coverage. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community and commemorate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. As a member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, the only Chinese American in the U.S. Senate, and sole Native Hawaiian in the U.S. Congress, I am proud to stand here to honor the accomplishments and diversity of the AAPI community. 
   In 1978, my friends and dear colleagues Representatives Frank Horton and Norman Mineta, joined by Hawaii's Senators DANIEL K. INOUYE and Spark Matsunaga, introduced the first resolutions establishing Asian Pacific American Heritage Week to recognize the ongoing contributions to our Nation of the AAPI population. Representatives Horton and Mineta worked with their colleagues in the 102nd Congress to make Asian Pacific American Heritage Week a month-long celebration, and succeeded in doing so with enactment of Public Law 102-450 in 1992. I look back with pride over the past 25 years since our great Nation first observed Asian Pacific American Heritage Week. 
   Throughout this month, Federal agencies and AAPI and other organizations will hold events in celebration of the diversity of the AAPI population that range from samplings of Asian cuisines to dance, and policy lectures by distinguished speakers. Each event demonstrates the contributions that AAPI individuals have made to our country. I commend agencies and organizations for sponsoring such events to increase public awareness of the contributions made by the AAPI community. 
   This month presents us with a good opportunity to reexamine the need to increase AAPI participation in our Federal Government. I encourage the President to renew Executive Order 13216, the President's Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, which expired on June 7, 2003. The Commission is mandated to develop, monitor, and coordinate Federal efforts to improve AAPI participation in Government programs; foster research and data collection for AAPI populations and sub-populations; and increase public and private sector and community involvement in improving the health and well-being of the AAPI community. AAPI citizens, whether employed in the private and public sector, deserve the coordination of services that the Commission can facilitate. 
   Our celebration of AAPI history includes remembrances of the challenges and hardships that have been overcome. For example, we will never forget the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II. At the newly opened Manzanar National Historic Site Interpretive Center at the Manzanar War Relocation Center, we have an opportunity to explore our past and reflect. The AAPI community, specifically the Japanese American National Museum and Japanese American Citizens League, are exploring ways to preserve and recall history at the other sites that mark this traumatic time in our country's history in an effort to ensure that such actions do not repeat themselves. 
   This month also affords us time to reflect on the various social needs that exist in the AAPI community. Its population enriches our culture linguistically through a range of languages, such as Chinese, Hawaiian, Korean, Japanese, Malay, Samoan, Tamil, Thai, Vietnamese, and various Melanesian, Micronesian, and Polynesian languages. Our Nation benefits from this linguistic diversity in our ability to compete in the global economy, and U.S. national security is strengthened by increasing the pool of individuals fluent in critical languages. Fluency in foreign languages is one of the vital skills necessary for the United States to exercise international leadership economically and politically. However, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, slightly less than half of the 7 million AAPI who speak a language other than English at home report that they speak English ``very well.'' We need to better address the educational needs of all limited English proficiency students, children, and adults. 
   I want to extend my gratitude to the patriotic men and women serving our country in the military, including the 60,813 Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders serving on active duty in the U.S. Armed Services, as well as the 28,066 in the Reserves and National Guard. I also commend the 351,000 AAPI veterans, 57,000 of whom are of Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander heritage, for their excellence in defending our nation. 
   In addition, individual achievements among the AAPI population are many. Though impossible to enumerate all those extraordinary individuals, I would like to cite a few examples. 
   Army Specialist Hilario Bermanis of the Army's 82nd Airborne Division was presented with the Bronze Star and Purple Heart for Meritorious Conduct in Operation Iraqi Freedom. On July 16, 2003, the award presentation ceremony took place bedside at Walter Reed Army Medical Center where he was convalescing from grave injuries. Specialist Bermanis and a fellow soldier were on guard duty in southern Baghdad when they sustained an attack by rocket propelled grenades on June 10, 2003. His fellow soldier died instantly and Specialist Bermanis lost both legs and his left hand. Officials from the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) and the 
   U.S. Government have visited him at Walter Reed and praised him for his courage and exemplary service. A senior U.S. official commended Specialist Bermanis's service as representative of FSM citizens' commitment to the security of the United States and Pacific region. Specialist Bermanis hails from Pohnpei in the Federated States of Micronesia. 
   Dr. Yuan-Cheng Fung, the recipient of the Chinese Institute of Engineers' Distinguished Life Time Achievement Award, is a pioneer in bioengineering and founder of the University of California, San Diego's bioengineering department. Born in China in 1919, Dr. Fung began his career as an aeronautics engineer working for the Chinese government. Dr. Fung received his Ph.D. from the California Institute of Technology in 1948, where he became a faculty member and a major contributor to the field of aeroelasticity. When his mother developed glaucoma, Dr. Fung's interests shifted to medical science. Combining an expertise in force and motion from aeronautics with physiology, he synthesized a new understanding of how the body functions and became the father of biomechanics. 
   Lauren Moriarty, a Native Hawaiian, is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service and was confirmed for the rank of Ambassador to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum, where she was recently the U.S. Senior Official. Having previously served in Beijing and Taipei, Ms. Moriarty led the Economic Sections at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, China (1999-2001) and the American Institute in Taiwan (1994-1997) as those two economies completed negotiations to accede to the World Trade Organization. She has received numerous awards, including the State Department's 1993 Arnold L. Raphel Award for her leadership and mentoring of her subordinates. 
   Indra K. Nooyi is the widely admired President and Chief Financial Officer for PepsiCo and highest ranking Indian-born woman in corporate America. Upon emigrating to the United States in 1978, Ms. Nooyi entered the Yale School of Management. She worked from midnight to five in the morning to support herself at school. A firm believer in human potential and an advocate of education, Ms. Nooyi has received awards for her dedication to human capital management. She is ranked by Fortune magazine as one of America's top 50 most powerful women. 
   AAPI cultural and linguistic diversity, entrepreneurship, public service, and scientific endeavors illustrate a  number of the ways that our Nation excels. The United States is the most energetic and innovative country because of the combination of these AAPI strengths with the diverse abilities and skills of our Nation's other ethnic and racial groups. The U.S. is also a leader in the world because of our ability to acknowledge, celebrate, and utilize the potency of our combined, diverse citizenry, including the contributions from every member of our AAPI community. In the world that is all too frequently wracked by ethnic and religious conflicts, we can demonstrate to others how racial and ethnic harmony in the U.S. provides a balance that encourages a stable democracy, provides for well-functioning societies, and sustains the most powerful economy in the world. 
   In closing, I extend my deepest aloha to all in celebration of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, and I urge my colleagues to participate in commemorations of this month in their States and our Nation's Capital. 
   I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, for the past 5 days, I have paid tribute to the Nation's public servants during Public Service Recognition Week through statements on the floor of the U.S. Senate. As this is the 20th annual celebration of public service, it was fitting to focus the Senate's attention on public servants and issues affecting Federal employees throughout the week. 
   Today I would like to recognize those Federal, State, and local government programs that received the Public Service Excellence Awards. The Public Service Excellence Awards recognize and commend U.S. programs and employee teams who represent public service at its best. It rewards innovations, raises awareness of exemplary public service, and provides public agencies a showcase for outstanding programs. On May 3, 2004, the Public Employees Roundtable, a nonprofit coalition of organizations representing public employees and retirees, held a Breakfast of Champions to honor the award winners for this year. 
   This year, the Federal winner was the ``Internal Revenue Service (IRS) eLearning Program.'' As my colleagues on the Governmental Affairs Committee know, training our Federal workforce is one of the most important and most underfunded programs in the Federal Government. Even when training programs are funded, agencies must use innovative techniques to stretch training dollars and apply training funds strategically. The IRS realized that approximately 70 percent of its training budget went toward travel to and from the seminars. As such, eLearning could save the IRS a significant amount of money by converting its training system from a classroom-based to a technology-enhanced learning and performance support environment. In the initial phase of the program, the IRS saved more than $5 million in travel costs by using the technology for briefings required of all 120,000 employees and courses supporting the 28,000 employees of Customer Call Center Operations. At full implementation, the eLearning strategy is expected to save more than $50 million in annual travel costs and reduce training time by up to one-third. This innovative program at IRS is an excellent example of the dedicated work and professional excellence of federal employees. 
   The State winner is the ``Work that Matters'' campaign by the Montana Education Association and the Montana Federation of Teachers (MEA-MFT). The ``Work that Matters'' public relations campaign was created in 2003 to prevent the Montana Legislature from freezing salaries of State employees. ``Work That Matters'' is about putting a face on the people who provide state services and showing them as dedicated, hardworking people, who care about the people they serve. 
   As my colleagues know, all too often government employees are forced to ``tighten their belts'' during times of financial difficulties. That trend is no different for State governments across the United States. In Montana, the beginning of the 2003 legislative session had State employees struggling with hiring freezes, layoffs, staff shortages, and salaries far below market value. This public relations program put a face to the government employees who carry out the programs and services that benefit taxpayers, the State legislature realized the importance of public service and passed a pay increase. 
   This year's local winner was the City of Chicago's ``311 Service,'' which provides a one-stop telephone and online customer service center for all non-emergency city services. It is a comprehensive, high-tech, customer-focused information and response service. Chicago residents can use the system to make service needs known, check on the status of earlier requests, file police reports, and get information on city programs and events. In addition, the 311 service is synchronized with Chicago's 911 emergency service. Such interoperability is commendable because all too often the non-emergency services are overlooked when developing an emergency response system. ``Chicago 311'' is an innovative and effective way for public employees to serve the community. 
   The Public Service Roundtable also recognized a non-profit organization, which was founded by a retired federal employee. Scott Dimock and his partner, Sammie Morrison, created Southeast White House community center in Washington, DC which has made an incredible impact on an area troubled by high unemployment, lack of opportunity, and broken promises. Through the use of donated services, time, and money, Southeast White House has developed a mentoring program, a Friends of Children program, a People's House referral service for services throughout the Metropolitan area, and an activities program that includes summer camps, field trips, lessons and programs in a variety of subjects, Mom's Night Out, and weekly community banquets open to all. 
   In addition, Southeast White House has adopted an elementary school and has developed an intensive mentoring program for at-risk children. More than 100 elementary school children  now receive up to eight hours of mentoring each week. While not technically part of a federal, state, or local government organization, it is easy to see the dedication public servants, both active and retired, bring to their nation and their neighbor. 
   I would also like to commend GEICO, the Government Employees Insurance Company, for creating the GEICO Public Service Awards which, since 1980, recognizes the work Federal employees do to make their communities better. The awards recognizes government employees for outstanding achievements in one of four areas: substance abuse prevention and treatment, fire prevention and safety, physical rehabilitation, and traffic safety and accident prevention. In addition, one retired Federal employee is honored for his or her work in one of those areas. Recipients of the 2003 awards are: 
   Charles Whitlock, fire safety project leader for the U.S. Forest Service Technology & Development Center in Missoula, MT, for his work in fire safety and prevention. 
   Amanda Tye, county executive director of the Cleveland County Office for the Farm Service Agency, for her work in traffic safety and accident prevention. 
   Carolyn D. Greene, program support assistant for the Louis Stokes V.A. Medical Center in Cleveland, OH, for her work in substance abuse prevention and treatment. 
   Ralph P. Fowler, a telecommunications specialist for the United States Army in El Paso, TX, for his work in physical rehabilitation. 
   George S. Klein, a retired general forecaster with the National Weather Service Forecast Office in Upton, NY, for his work in physical rehabilitation. 
   As Public Service Recognition Week draws to an end, I would like to once again commend those who have been honored for their dedication to public service, as well as those unsung heroes whose daily contributions we could not live without. I also want to thank the companies, associations, and other employee organizations who work to make Public Service Recognition Week such a success and for their commitment in honoring our Nation's Federal, State, and local government employees. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Over the past 3 days, I have discussed the need to honor public servants, especially Federal workers, during Public Service Recognition Week. I thought back to last week when I participated in the nomination hearing for David Safavian, who has been nominated to serve as the Administrator for the Office of Federal Procurement Policy. This position serves as the gatekeeper for the Government's contracts. Much of our discussion with Mr. Safavian centered on making sure that Federal employees have the right to protest competition decisions and that agencies have adequate funds to compete to retain work in-house. 
   Some of the concerns expressed at our hearing stemmed from what I consider to be misguided principles set forth under the President's Management Agenda, which required agencies to implement quotas that could have resulted in the contracting out of up to one-half of all Federal work. Congress, in a bipartisan manner, voiced its opposition to this government-wide approach of contracting out quotas through provisions in the Fiscal Year 2003 Transportation, Treasury, and General Government Appropriations Act. In response to this action and others, the administration dropped this approach in favor of agency-specific plans. With the recent policy reversal of the administration on contracting quotas, I had hoped that the change would have resulted in a fairer approach to the contracting out of Federal work. Therefore, I was disappointed that a February 2004 report on competitive sourcing by the General Accounting Office, GAO, Congress's independent auditor, found that agencies have focused more on following OMB guidelines on the number of positions to compete at the expense of achieving savings and improving performance. 
   As the ranking member of the Governmental Affairs Financial Management Subcommittee and the Armed Services Readiness Subcommittee, I understand that without adequate management structures, management information systems, and program review structures, government contracts will not realize savings for the American people. This has been proved time and again by GAO. Contract management and acquisitions have long been identified as high-risk areas. As such, we must ensure that Government contracts are awarded only to responsible parties who generate cost-savings throughout the life of contracts. To counter cost overruns and stop erroneous and improper payments, agencies need the resources to improve the speed and accuracy of contract data collection. 
   The GAO report also noted that six out of the seven agency offices examined had only one or two employees overseeing outsourcing activities. More must be done to make certain that agencies have the people, skills, and technologies needed to oversee $230 billion in contracts. 
   The key to achieving success requires strengthening the Federal Government's acquisition and contract management workforce. We must recognize that this corps of professionals make decisions every day affecting how hundreds of millions of Federal dollars are spent. For a number of years now, the acquisition workforce has been drastically downsized and many of those remaining are eligible to retire. 
   Whether we are discussing quotas or the acquisition workforce, concerns about competitive outsourcing within the Federal Government are essentially about accountability. Approximately 2 million Federal employees and another 8 million private sector employees work for the Government on grants and contracts. This situation raises concerns about who is ultimately responsible for contracted work. It also draws attention to the long-term implications of competitive outsourcing, both in terms of money spent, efficiencies gained, and the retention of institutional knowledge and experienced Federal employees. 
   As we near the end of Public Service Recognition Week, I want to thank our acquisition workforce for their efforts in managing Government contracts. I also urge my colleagues to support efforts to increase and train the acquisition workforce and implement the systems and structures needed to ensure that Government contracting is transparent, accountable, cost effective, and fair to Federal workers. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Homeland Security Geospatial Information Act of 2004 which would create a Geospatial Management Office within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Geospatial information is a critical component of effective planning for homeland security. 
   My interest in homeland security geospatial information developed out of my efforts to ensure support for pre-disaster mitigation programs, such as Project Impact. Project Impact was started by FEME in 1997 to help communities become disaster-resistant by preventing damage and loss of life and property during a disaster and reducing recovery time and costs afterwards. 
   Geospatial technologies, such as satellite imagery and aerial photography, provide data that create the maps and charts that can help prevent a disaster from occurring or lessen the impact of an unforeseeable event by equipping first responders with up-to-date information. In the event of a terrorist chemical attack, knowing which way a contaminated plume will travel can save lives. Similarly, the damage of a natural disaster, such as wildfire, can be lessened by maps that help predict which areas will be in the path of the blaze. 
   My own State of Hawaii is vulnerable to hurricanes, torrential rains and flooding, tsunamis, droughts, earthquakes, and even wildfires. Four years ago, flooding on the islands of Hawaii and Maui caused approximately $20 million in damage to private and public facilities. In order to predict floods more accurately, local officials need current, interoperable data on water levels and surrounding infrastructure so that accurate maps predicting the flow of water can be created on demand. Accurate maps are also critical for swift and safe evacuation procedures. 
   All levels of government are more effective and efficient when employing geospatial technology, especially in the area of homeland security. Its uses include, but are not limited to: disaster early warning and mitigation, border monitoring, criminal investigations, public health protection, and critical infrastructure oversight. 
   In the past, geospatial information management has been done in a piecemeal fashion. Domestic geospatial data procurement and sharing is poorly coordinated and managed. According to a 2003 study by Cary and Associates, a geotechnology consulting firm, the Federal Government 
   spends $5 billion per year on geospatial goods and technologies. This figure does not include the amount being spent by State and local agencies, which some experts estimate is two to three times that of the  Federal Government. It is also estimated that at least half of the government's geospatial spending is going towards redundant activities. 
   During a House Government Reform hearing in June 2003, Mark Forman, then the Administrator of the Office of E-Government and Information Technology, admitted that the Office of Management and Budget had no idea how much money federal agencies spend on geospatial procurement. 
   The Administration's current solution to this problem is Geospatial One-Stop, an online portal where organizations and individuals can access geospatial information developed by Federal, State, and local agencies. While Geospatial One-Stop is a good sharing tool, it helps to reduce government redundancy only if agencies voluntarily access data from it instead of procuring the data themselves. With no one keeping a close eye on an agency's geospatial spending, there is no incentive for it to utilize this tool. 
   The legacy agencies that make up DHS had traditionally managed their own geospatial procurement. But many of the homeland and non-homeland security missions of DHS complement each other. Sharing maps and data reduces redundancy, provides savings, and ensures better information for disaster response. 
   Currently, the DHS Chief Information Officer (CIO) is working to break down this geospatial stove piping within the Department by naming a Geospatial Information Officer. However, there is no single office in DHS officially responsible for geospatial management, and therefore, no corresponding budget. In the present structure, the Geospatial Information Officer does not have the authority to compel the five DHS directorates to cooperate with his efforts. The entire agency should make geospatial coordination a priority. 
   A geospatial management office needs to be created and codified within DHS. A congressionally mandated office would give the Geospatial Information Officer more authority with which to do this job. 
   The Office of Geospatial Management has the potential to significantly increase the quality of the resources homeland security officials rely on by reducing redundancy and improving the quality of geospatial procurement. But in order to do this it needs authority and funding. 
   This office would also serve as a mechanism for coordinating with State and local authorities. Much of the geospatial information available today is created at the state and local levels. Centralizing this information will make it more widely available to first responders and other homeland security officials. 
   The Homeland Security Geospatial Act of 2004, will address these needs by: creating the Office of Geospatial Management under the CIO; giving this office the responsibility for managing DHS geospatial activities and coordinating with State and local officials on geospatial initiatives that pertain to homeland security; and naming the Department as member of the Geospatial One-Stop Board of Directors, which will give DHS a role in coordinating federal geospatial activities. 
   We can improve the Department's mission of protecting America, while maximizing the funds. I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I rise to pay tribute to those public servants who step forward to disclose government waste, fraud, and abuse. Commonly called whistleblowers, these individuals alert Congress and the public to threats to health, waste of taxpayer money, and other information vital to running an effective and efficient government. While there are protections in place for Federal employees who disclose government wrongdoing, certain legal decisions prevent many from coming forward. To underscore the importance of whistleblowers, Time Magazine called 2002 the ``Year of the Whistleblowers'' because of the bravery of FBI Agent Colleen Rowley, who alerted Congress to serious institutional problems at the FBI, and Sherron Watkins and Cynthia Cooper, who blew the whistle on financial mismanagement at Enron and WorldCom, respectively.  Today, as in 2002, it is important that during Public Service Recognition Week we acknowledge those who disclose information without assurances of protection and pledge to do what we can to provide full protection for those trusted public servants. 
   Congress has a duty to taxpayers to make informed decisions when carrying out its legislative, appropriation, and oversight functions. Such decisions require access to timely and accurate information, and when access is restricted, we are unable to provide oversight and fulfill our constitutional responsibilities. Only through a credible, functioning statute can we protect the rights of Federal workers who wish to communicate with Congress. Guaranteeing freedom from retaliation or abuse when disclosing critical information to Congress is the underpinning of the Whistleblower Protection Act, WPA. 
   Congress has worked hard, and continues to work, to provide real whistleblower protection to Federal employees. Unfortunately, through a series of decisions contrary to both statutory language and congressional intent, the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals, which has sole appellate review for the WPA, has denied full whistleblower protections to Federal workers and harmed Congress's ability to do its job. In fact, of the 85 retaliation cases decided on the merits since 1994, the Federal circuit has ruled for the whistleblower only once. 
   To ensure continued whistleblower protection, I introduced S. 1358, the Federal Employee Protection of Disclosures Act, on June 26, 2003, with Senators GRASSLEY, LEVIN, LEAHY, and DURBIN. Since introduction, we have been joined by Senators Dayton, Pryor, and Johnson. Our bill would strengthen protections for Federal employees who report government waste, fraud, abuse, gross mismanagement, and substantial and specific dangers to public health and safety. 
   Congress has consistently supported the principle that Federal employees should not be subject to prior restraint from disclosing wrongdoing. For example, every year since 1988 Congress has included in every Transportation, Treasury, and General Government Appropriations bill an ``anti-gag'' provision which prohibits the use of Federal funds to implement nondisclosure policies that are inconsistent with several open government statutes, such as the WPA of 1989 as amended in 1994, the Military Whistleblower Protection Act of 1998, and the Lloyd Lafollette Act of 1912, which prohibits discrimination against government employees who communicate with Congress. 
   However, more must be done. Since we introduced our bill there have been several more public reports of Federal employees allegedly being fired or threatened with termination or other retaliation for communicating with Congress and disclosing government wrongdoing to the press. These reports include the controversy surrounding the U.S. Park Police and cost estimates for the newly enacted Medicare prescription drug program. In order to aid these and other employees and provide full protection to Federal whistleblowers, S. 1358 would codify the ``anti-gag'' provision and allow employees to bring cases seeking remedial action for retaliation before the Merit Systems Protection Board, MSPB, an independent, quasi-judicial agency that adjudicates Federal employee appeals. 
   In addition, our bill, the Federal Employee Protection of Disclosures Act, would overturn certain Federal Circuit decisions which have denied protection to employees who made disclosures in the course of their job duties or reported initially to the wrongdoer or a coworker. S. 1358 would also suspend the Federal Circuit's exclusive jurisdiction over WPA reprisal cases for 5 years, and overturn the wrongly established ``irrefragable proof'' standard imposed by the Federal circuit for whistleblowers to qualify for protection. 
   Although much press has been given to recent whistleblower cases, it is important to remember those who have reported allegations of aircraft maintenance violations, water safety regulations, and lapses in our national security. Protecting Federal employees who blow the whistle allows us to protect taxpayers and, in recent notable instances, national security as well. That is why the WPA is often referred to as the Taxpayer Protection Act. 
   During Public Service Recognition Week, I urge my colleagues to remember public servants who have come forward and honor them by supporting S. 1358 and strengthening protections for whistleblowers. 
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, last week, 70 members of the Federal Government's Senior Executive Service and Senior Level and Scientific and Professional employees received the Nation's highest civil service award for their leadership accomplishments and long-term contributions to their country. 
   I believe it is fitting to honor these men and women during Public Service Recognition Week, which began yesterday, May 3, 2004. As noted by the Office of Personnel Management, ``Winners of this prestigious award are strong leaders, professionals, and scientists who achieve results and consistently demonstrate strength, integrity, industry,  and a relentless commitment to excellence in public service.'' To me, these awards serve as a reminder that the federal civil service is made up of individuals who have chosen to work for the federal government and their betterment of their fellow citizens. 
   This year marks the first time that Senior Level and Scientific and Professional executives joined those in the Senior Executive Service in receiving awards. The winners, who were honored at a dinner sponsored by the Senior Executives Association Professional Development League last week, have saved the Federal Government over $187 billion according to SEA President Carol A. Bonosaro. At last week's dinner, Ms. Bonosaro detailed notable achievements of the award recipients: including leading a deployment to Kosovo to gather evidence of war crimes in support of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia; managing 15 nutrition assistance programs--with $40 billion in apropriations--which reach 50 million Americans annually; serving as a Space Shuttle astronaut pilot and commander; directing the prosecution of international cartels with fines totaling more than $42 billion and the convictions of corporate executives from the U.S. and twelve foreign countries; and serving as the scientific leader of a $2 billion telescope mission, to be launched in 2010, with the objective of seeing the first light in the universe released after the Big Bang. 
   There are two categories of rank awards; distinguished and meritorious awards. For both awards, winners are chosen through a rigorous selection process which includes nomination by their agency heads, evaluation by boards of private citizens, and approval by the President. Distinguished rank award recipients receive a lump-sum payment of 35 percent of their base pay. Meritorious rank award recipients receive 20 percent of base pay. 
   At a time when many young people are questioning the value of public service, I urge them to explore the exciting and challenging employment opportunities with the federal government, as well as the benefits of serving their nation. As the Presidential Rank Awards demonstrated, the government values those who seek public service. 
   Mr. President, I ask that the names and agencies of the 2003 Presidential Rank Award winners be printed in the RECORD. 
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today marks the beginning of Public Service Recognition Week, which has been celebrated annually since 1985. It is a time in which we honor the hundreds of thousands of public servants who perform the essential services that Americans depend on every day. 
   This year marks the 20th anniversary of this event, and I thank my colleagues for their support in passing, under unanimous consent, legislation I introduced to commend public servants for their dedication and continued service to the Nation during Public Service Recognition Week. The resolution, which was cosponsored by the leadership of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, Senators COLLINS, LIEBERMAN, FITZGERALD, DURBIN, VOINOVICH, LEVIN, and COLEMAN, as well as Senator Murray, the ranking member of the Transportation, Treasury, and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee, was introduced on April 8, 2004. 
   Public Service Recognition Week provides us with an opportunity to acknowledge the work that public servants perform and their commitment to community and country. The work they do affects all of us. Public servants include teachers, members of the Armed Forces, civilian defense workers, postal employees, food inspectors, law enforcement officers, firemen, social workers, crossing guards, and road engineers. 
   These men and women are the backbone of what makes America great. They deserve our respect and gratitude; and yet for too long, public servants have not been given the recognition they deserve. We must do all we can to foster a better understanding of public service among all Americans and promote public service as an option for young people. As a former educator, I believe it is time to call on a new generation of Americans to consider public service, which is why I am pleased that some schools are now requiring a period of public service in order to graduate. 
   The Federal Government should be viewed as an employer of choice, not as a safe harbor in times of economic weakness. But to attract, retain, and train the best and the brightest, Federal agencies must have adequate funding for Federal employee incentive programs, such as the repayment of student loans. I call on my colleagues to ensure that Congress plays an active role in supporting the Federal workforce. Eliminating funding for these programs does not benefit Federal employees or the ultimate end user: the American taxpayer. 
   In closing, I wish to pay particular attention to the men and women who serve in our Armed Forces and the civilian employees who support military missions. All are key to the security and defense of our Nation. From the war against terrorism to the ongoing conflict in Iraq, our military and civilian support staff show courage in the face of adversity. As with the country's Armed Forces, Federal employees are ready, willing, and able to make the world safe. 
   As we begin Public Service Recognition Week, I ask my colleagues to join me in saluting our Nation's public servants and thanking them for the jobs they do.  
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Pet Safety and Protection Act. My legislation amends the Animal Welfare Act to ensure that all companion animals such as dogs and cats used by research facilities are obtained legally. 
   Over 30 years ago, Congress passed the Animal Welfare Act (AWA) authorizing the Secretary of Agriculture to set and enforce standards protecting animals used in biomedical research, bred for commercial sale, exhibited to the public, or commercially transported from inhumane treatment. Despite the well-meaning intentions of the AWA and the enforcement efforts of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Act fails to provide reliable protection against the actions of some unethical animal dealers. 
   Under the AWA, Class B animal dealers are defined as individuals whose business includes the purchase, sale, or transport of animals in commerce, including dogs and cats intended for use at research facilities. To the dismay of animal welfare advocates and pet owners, some Class B, or ``random source,'' dealers have resorted to theft and deception to collect animals for resale. In many instances these animals were found living under inhumane conditions. 
   As recently as August of 2003, USDA agents executed a warrant to investigate a Class B dealer from Arkansas suspected of violations of the AWA for the second time in several years. Many claims have been levied against this dealer, and approximately 125 dogs were seized by Federal agents during this week-long search. The investigation of this facility is ongoing, and an indictment is pending. 
   The complaint being investigated by the USDA against the dealer alleges that the respondents' veterinarian provided for them falsified official health certificates for cats and dogs, and also provided them with blank, undated, and signed health certificates. It is also alleged that the dealer failed to provide the barest standards of care, husbandry, and housing for the animals on the premises. The undercover investigation of this facility has revealed that its proprietors were aware that some of the companion animals brought to the facility were stolen, and also revealed a list of over 50 ``bunchers,'' individuals who obtain animals and sell them to ``random source'' animal dealers. Bunchers have a variety of methods of obtaining companion animals, including responding to newspaper ads offering free animals, trespassing on private property to abduct the animals from yards, and house burglaries.  
   Inadequate veterinary care is one of the worst violations of the AWA committed against these animals. The expense for quality veterinary care is one that irresponsible Class B dealers do not wish to incur, and animals often die as a result of their untreated injuries or diseases. This was one of the violations uncovered by the investigation, and often resulted from another violation of the AWA that requires compatible grouping of animals. Vicious or diseased animals were not separated from the general population and posed a risk to all of the animals housed with them. In addition, this particular dealer also provided inadequate housing facilities that exposed the animals to injury from sharp wires. Fecal waste was allowed to accumulate in the housing facility, and often dead dogs were left where they fell in cages with other living animals. Food receptacles were found to be contaminated with moldy and rotten food, and potable water was not readily available to the animals. All of these are direct violations of the Animal Welfare Act. In addition to neglect, these animals often suffer abuse at the hands of dealers. Evidence of gross cruelty is being uncovered while the USDA continues to investigate this case. 
   The Pet Safety and Protection Act strengthens the AWA by prohibiting the use of Class B dealers as suppliers of dogs and cats to research laboratories. My legislation would not be a burden on research facilities because only two percent of the approximately 2,051 Class B dealers in the United States currently sell cats and dogs to research facilities. I am not here to argue whether animals should or should not be used in research. Medical research is an invaluable weapon in the battle against disease. New drugs and surgical techniques offer promise in the fight against cancer, Alzheimer's, tuberculosis, AIDS, and a host of other life-threatening diseases. Animal research has been, and continues to be, fundamental to advancements in medicine. However, I am concerned with the sale of stolen pets and stray animals to research facilities and the poor treatment of these animals by some Class B dealers. 
   My legislation preserves the integrity of animal research by encouraging research laboratories to obtain animals from legitimate sources that comply with the AWA. Legitimate sources for animals include USDA-licensed Class A dealers, breeders, and research facilities, municipal pounds and shelters, and legitimate pet owners who want to donate their animals to research. These sources are capable of meeting the demand for research animals. The National Institutes of Health, in an effort to curb abuse and deception, have already adopted policies against the acquisition of dogs and cats from Class B dealers. 
   The Pet Safety and Protection Act also reduces the Department of Agriculture's regulatory burden by allowing the Department to use its resources more efficiently and effectively. Each year, thousands of dollars are spent on regulating dealers. To discourage any future violations of the AWA, my bill increases the penalties to a minimum of $1,000 per violation. 
   I reiterate that this bill in no way impairs or impedes research, but will end the fraudulent practices of some Class B dealers, as well as the unnecessary suffering of these animals in their care. I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation. I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, due to a previous obligation, I was unable to vote on the conference report to H.R. 3108, the Pension Funding Equity Act of 2004. If I had been present, I would have voted in support of the conference report. I appreciate the work done on this conference report by my colleagues, Senators GRASSLEY, GREGG, MCCONNELL, BAUCUS, and KENNEDY. As others have mentioned before, this legislation is very important to many businesses and their employees suffering from the recent economic downturn and in need of pension relief that the act will provide. 
   While the act will help millions of employees who are covered under this measure, I am concerned that approximately 9.7 million Americans who belong to multi-employer pension plans, many of them in the construction industry, who are facing the same problems as employees covered by other pension plans, will not be receiving this relief. In January, when the Senate overwhelmingly passed H.R. 3108, we agreed that our pension laws should affect not just single-employer plans but also multi-employer plans. We thought including multi-employers was fair and just. Unfortunately, in conference, there were some that agreed with the Bush administration that multi-employer plans should only receive partial relief. Some would say that the relief will be four percent, others will say it is even less than that. All I know is that millions of hardworking Americans, who report to work just as any other employee, will not receive this relief. 
   However, with the April 15 deadline where many employers were facing an inflated contribution to their pension plans and the administration's threat of a veto if the final bill included multi-employer relief, I could not penalize approximately 35 million Americans who are covered by single-employer defined benefit plans. The low 30-year Treasury bond interest rates and the unpredictable stock market have adversely affected many companies that contribute to these defined benefit plans. Again, while I believe these conditions affected not just single-employer plans, but also multi-employer plans, I could not jeopardize the 35 million Americans who could have lost their pensions if this important legislation were not enacted into law. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I rise to join my good friend from Illinois, Senator Durbin, in reintroducing the Homeland Security Education Act. Our legislation would improve science, math, and foreign language education in the United States by offering incentives for students to study these subjects and provide much needed funding to elementary, secondary, and post secondary institutions to improve educational programs in these critical subject areas. 
   As my colleagues know, the demand for individuals with technical and language expertise is growing. In 2001 the United States Commission on National Security/21st Century, also known as the Hart-Rudman Commission, concluded that America's need for many skilled people in science, math, computer science, and engineering is not being met. If we do not address this problem, America's position as a global leader would be challenged. With the acceleration of the internationalization of science and technology activities, assets, and capabilities, U.S. advantages in many critical fields are shrinking and may be eclipsed in the years ahead. 
   While science, math, and engineering skills are especially critical for the defense and homeland security industries, expertise in these fields is also critical to the United States' success in the global economy. America's ability to lead depends particularly on the depth and breadth of its scientific and technical communities. Our education system must produce significantly more scientists and engineers to meet demand and maintain our global leadership in science and technology. We need to develop more qualified math and science teachers and provide educational incentives to encourage students to pursue careers in these fields. However, there will not be enough qualified workers to perform new technology jobs including those jobs critical to maintaining national security. It is more important than ever that we prepare the children of today with the skills necessary to succeed tomorrow. 
   Also critical for success in today's world is proficiency in foreign languages. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, placed renewed emphasis on the need for individuals possessing critical language skills. Shortly after the terrorist attacks, FBI Director Robert Mueller made a public plea requesting speakers of Arabic and Farsi to translate intelligence documents, left untranslated due to the lack of foreign language speakers. 
   The investigations surrounding the attacks underscore how critical foreign language proficiency is to our national security. The joint Congressional Intelligence Committee inquiry into the terrorist attacks found that prior to September 11, the Intelligence Community was not prepared to handle the challenge of translating the volumes of foreign language counter-terrorism intelligence it had collected. Agencies within the Intelligence Community experienced backlogs in material awaiting translation, a shortage of language specialists and language-qualified field officers, and a readiness level of only 30 percent in the most critical languages used by terrorists. These backlogs still exist. 
   Our foreign language needs have grown significantly over the past decade with increasing globalization and a changing security environment. Foreign language skills are needed to support traditional diplomatic efforts and public diplomacy programs, military and peacekeeping missions, intelligence collection, counter-terrorism efforts, and international trade. 
   Unfortunately, the United States faces a critical shortage of language proficient professionals government-wide. According to the General Accounting Office, agencies have shortages in translators and interpreters and an overall shortfall in the language proficiency levels needed to carry out their missions. Our national security would be enhanced if our law enforcement officers, intelligence officers, scientists, military personnel, and other federal employees could decipher and interpret information from foreign sources, as well as interact with foreign nationals. 
   America needs people who are fluent in local languages and who understand foreign cultures. The stability and economic vitality of the United States and our national security depend on American citizens who are knowledgeable about the world. We need civil servants, area experts, diplomats, business people, educators, and other public servants with the ability to communicate at an advanced level in foreign languages and understand the cultures of the people with whom they interact. 
   The good news is that there has been a recent jump in enrollment in foreign language courses at the university level, according to the Modern Language Association. A total of 1.4 million students enrolled in foreign language classes in the Fall of 2003. This is a 17.9 percent jump since 1998 and represents the highest foreign language enrollment ever. 
   At the same time, many foreign language programs at the elementary school level have suffered deep cuts. Many school districts are responding to funding shortages by reducing or eliminating their foreign language programs. In some districts, French and German programs have been cut to save Spanish programs, while less commonly taught languages, such as Russian and Japanese, are being phased out altogether. Although my own state of Hawaii leads the nation in cutting edge foreign language immersion programs for elementary school students and is one of the top nine states in the nation in the percentage of public primary schools offering foreign language immersion programs, more must be done. 
   Experts tell us we should develop long-term relationships with people from every walk of life all across the world, whether or not the languages they speak are considered ``critical'' at the time. Experts also tell us that an ongoing commitment to maintaining these relationships and language expertise helps prevent crises from occurring and provides diplomatic and language resources when needed. 
   They are right. We cannot afford to seek out foreign language skills after a terrorist attack occurs. The failures of communication and understanding have already done their damage. We must provide an ongoing commitment to language education and encourage knowledge of foreign languages and cultures. 
   In 2001, my good friend and former colleague, the late Senator Paul Simon said, ``In every national crisis, our nation has lamented its foreign language shortfalls. But then the crisis goes  away, and we return to business as usual. One of the messages of September 11 is that business as usual is no longer an acceptable option.'' Senator Durbin and I are reintroducing this important legislation today in order to reaffirm our ongoing commitment to foreign language and science education. 
   In addition to the legislation we are introducing today, I have also introduced, with Senator Durbin and several of our colleagues, S. 589, the Homeland Security Federal Workforce Act, to address these skill shortfalls in the federal government. The Senate passed S. 589 in November, and the bill is pending before the House. However, we must now ensure that we not only provide incentives to recruit individuals with these skills, but also ensure that there is a talented applicant pool from which to recruit. This new bill, the Homeland Security Education Act, will do just that. 
   The Homeland Security Education Act would provide incentives for students to obtain degrees in science, math, and foreign languages by offering to repay the interest on their student loans. Our legislation would also strengthen science and math instruction in elementary and secondary schools and promote foreign language education at all levels of study by encouraging greater training of foreign language teachers and the development of more rigorous foreign language education. These measures could have a significant impact on strengthening our nation's expertise in areas critical to national security. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation and improve our science, math, and foreign language education programs. 
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am proud to announce that the class from Kahuku High School of Kahuku, HI, will represent the State of Hawaii at the national finals of We the People: The Citizen and the Constitution. These Hawaii students will join the more than 1,200 students from across the country that will visit Washington, DC, to take part in the We the People national competition to be held during the first week of May. These outstanding students, through their knowledge of the U.S. Constitution, won Hawaii's statewide competition and earned the chance to come to our Nation's Capital and compete at the national level. 
   The We the People program is administered by the Center for Civic Education and is an extensive educational program developed specifically to educate young people about the U.S. Constitution and Bill of Rights. The 3-day competition is modeled after hearings in the U.S. Congress and provides students with the opportunity to demonstrate their knowledge before a panel of adult judges while they evaluate, take, and defend positions on relevant historical and contemporary issues. Their testimony is followed by questions designed to probe the students' depth of understanding and ability to apply their constitutional knowledge. 
   I would like to recognize the following 25 Kahuku students that will be representing the State of Hawaii: Samuel Braden, Chelsey Bunker, Stacia Colton, Brian Craycroft, Tusi Esera, Lacey Golonka, Evelyn Griffin, Reis Harney, Celesta Hubner, Jeremy James, Natalie Kamauoha, Jennifer Kamiya, Azura Iversen-Keahi, Tiffany Lee, Brook McArthur, Donna Ramos, Leilani Relator, Alicia Reidy, Aaron Rillamas, Jordan Williams, Austin Spring, Ian Tapu, Alexandra Thompson, Rachel Tolleson, and Seini Unga. I would especially like to thank their teacher, Ms. Sandra Cashman, for once again seizing this opportunity to empower and educate students about the significance of the American institutions of constitutional democracy. I am confident that the students will step up to the challenges presented in this competition and they will give a stellar performance. 
   As one who formerly taught at Kahuku High School, I take a special pride in these students' accomplishments. I know that it is because of school and parental support, dedication, and commitment that these students were empowered and encouraged to excel in this arena. I wish these students the best of luck at the We the People national finals and applaud their achievement. These students have no doubt made everyone in their school, their families, and their friends proud of what they have achieved. We should all be proud that they are learning and advocating the fundamental ideas that identify us as a people and bind us together as a nation. Let the students' enthusiasm and active participation in shaping their understanding of government serve as a model for all citizens to follow.  
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to congratulate two University of Hawaii (UH) student athletes, Kim Willoughby and Michael Kuebler, for their outstanding athletic achievements. Kim is an outside hitter for the UH Wahine Rainbow volleyball team and Michael is a guard for the UH Men's basketball team. Both athletes are seniors and have had highly decorated and successful careers while participating in the UH athletic program. 
   Fans are quick to recognize Kim's presence on the court as she is best known for her powerful and precise play. During her first season with the Wahine Rainbows, Kim earned the title of Western Athletic Conference, WAC, cofreshman averaging 3.14 kills and 3.02 digs per game. As a sophomore, Kim earned WAC player of the year, All-West region team, American Volleyball Coaches Association, AVCA, and Volleyball Magazine All-American first team honors. That season Kim surpassed conference and school records as she led the Nation with 850 kills and 7.20 kills per game. Kim captured the AVCA player of the week title twice and the WAC player of the week four times that same year. In her junior year, Kim earned the WAC player of the year honor for a second time. In her last 2 years on the squad, Kim ranked second in the Nation in kills per game and was again awarded the AVCA All-American first team titles. In 2003, Kim acquired AVCA's National player of the year as well as was named to the College Sports Television All-American team. Kim set the Wahine Rainbow record with 2,598 career kills, the sixth highest in the history of NCAA Division I women's volleyball. 
   As a transfer student from Clackamas Community College in Oregon, Michael joined the Rainbow Warriors and started the final 28 games of the 2002-2003 season. Michael's impressive play earned him Academic All-WAC newcomer team and All-Junior and Community College transfer team honors. During his senior season, Michael was voted to the All-WAC first team and earlier in the year tied the team's record for consecutive games with at least one three pointer. Michael not only led the team in scoring, but he also led the conference with 91 three pointers. This past March, the Rainbow Warriors concluded their season with a 21-to-12 record and finished one game short of the National Invitation Tournament, NIT, ``final four.'' During that last NIT match against Michigan, Michael scored a team high of 19 points, earned a career high of 8 assists, and increased his UH single season 3-point record to 97. I am also impressed with his priorities of balancing an athletic career while also building a strong academic foundation. Michael's off court accomplishments include holding a 3.67 grade point average as a business marketing major and being the first Rainbow Warrior to make the College Sports Information Director's Association Academic All-American first team. 
   The sports fans of Hawaii and I have enjoyed watching Kim Willoughby and Michael Kuebler compete and develop as athletes. I thank them both for their contributions to their respective sports and continuing the tradition of excellence long withstanding at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. As both of them bid the UH campus farewell this season, I wish the both of them the best in their future endeavors.  
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher established the Fisher House Foundation, Inc., a unique public-private partnership that supports America's military in their time of need. The program recognizes the special sacrifices of our men and women in uniform and the hardships of military service by meeting a humanitarian need beyond that provided by the Department of Defense. The Fisher Houses enable family members to be close to loved ones at the most stressful time--during hospitalization for an unexpected illness, disease, or injury. 
   The homes are built by the Fisher House Foundation, Inc., and given to the military services and the Veterans Administration. The Army is the recipient of 14 of the 32 Fisher Houses located at every major military medical center and at several VA medical centers. The homes are located within walking distance of the medical facility. 
    I recently had the pleasure of visiting with Fisher family members, friends, and staff of the Fisher House on board the USS Missouri to celebrate the opening of the second Fisher House at Tripler Army Medical Center, the largest military medical treatment facility in the Pacific located in Honolulu, HI. The first Tripler Fisher House opened in June 1994. Due to its location, families stay an average of 55 days, compared to an average of 15 days in other locations. Tripler Fisher Houses service families and patients not only from Hawaii but also the Pacific area of Korea, Guam, Japan, and Okinawa. 
    The Fisher Houses provide temporary lodging in a warm, compassionate, and caring home away from home environment to members of our armed services, veterans, and their families during a medical crisis. They enable families to stay together, cook meals, do laundry, relax, unwind, and provide emotional support to each other during a time of need, and to escape from the tensions of the hospital environment. 
    Today, when we ask so much of our military in support of freedom, it is important to recognize the generosity of foundations such as The Fisher House, that give back to those who have given so much in defending this great Nation. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I rise today to discuss the war on terrorism and the situation in Iraq on the 1-year anniversary of Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
   I had the honor and privilege of traveling to Iraq and Afghanistan over the recent recess to visit our troops. I had the similar honor of visiting them in the medical center at Ramstein, Germany. 
   I report to my colleagues the troops with whom I met were in good spirits. They are, of course, eager to return home to their loved ones, but they are also proud of the work they are doing to stabilize Iraq and assist the Iraqi people in building a democratic state. I was proud of them, proud of the leadership of our military, and proud of all the troops there. 
   As a veteran of World War II, I was proud to see in the troops the same dedication to duty, mission, and country I remember so well from my own comrades in arms. In Ramstein, I was impressed with the wonderful support our wounded were receiving from the medical staff, and I was equally impressed with the eagerness our wounded expressed to return to the sides of their comrades. In that eagerness to rejoin their units, they shared a bond with all their past brothers in uniform. 
   In Iraq, I visited the newly deployed Stryker brigade in Mosul. This unit is demonstrating in the field for the first time a powerful new capability. But it has also been given the difficult objective of patrolling a large area. They are still waiting for Iraqi forces to be trained and adequately equipped to supplement their effort. Clearly, one reason why the security situation still remains so tenuous is the failure to train and field sufficient Iraqi security forces. But the apparent ambush of two American civilians recently by Iraqi police indicates even some of the newly deployed security forces cannot be trusted. 
   According to the Coalition Provisional Authority, or CPA, we are only about 30,000 short of the approximately 236,000 security forces planned for Iraq. This may be so in terms of absolute numbers, but it is not a reflection of how well equipped they are, how well trained they are, and how well led they are. 
   For example, the CPA carries about 60,000 police on payroll, but only 2,300 of those have been fully qualified.  Prior to the war, the Iraqi police had a well-deserved reputation for being corrupt. Reports continue to indicate this remains a problem and, as I mentioned, there are indications the security forces have been infiltrated by terrorists. At the same time, many of the honest policemen are being targeted by terrorists. On Tuesday, 11 were killed in an ambush. So one should view numbers with a healthy skepticism and focus on quality. 
   I also had the opportunity to visit Balad, about 25 miles north of Baghdad. This will become the future center of air operations in Iraq, and we are now preparing a major airbase to service American troops for the next 3 to 5 years. 
   Elsewhere, there is the intent to move American troops out of Baghdad and consolidate forces in fewer installations on the periphery, thus reducing the visibility of the American footprint. This is going to be a very delicate maneuver. Reducing the American presence in Baghdad has to be balanced by an increase in the effectiveness of Iraqi security forces inside the city. We could run the risk of having that city of about 6 million become an even safer haven for terrorists while we hunker down in bases on the outskirts. 
   It also means we are planning for an extended stay in Iraq. While the administration indicates 33 countries are now contributing troops to Iraq, the bulk of the troops is American, and unless there is a change in strategy by the administration or a change in attitude by the international community, those troops for the foreseeable future will remain largely American. 
   Will there be American troops in Iraq by the time of the next Presidential election in 2008? Right now the answer is yes. 
   I was able to visit Kabul as well. So much attention and money have been focused on Iraq that I believe Afghanistan has been neglected to the detriment of our goal of defeating the terrorists who attacked us on 9/11. 
   One example: in Iraq we hope to field an army of 27 battalions in 12 months at a cost of $1.8 billion, while in Afghanistan we hope to field an army of 15 battalions in 26 months at a cost of $569 million. Yet, in Iraq, there is a military infrastructure of garrisons, facilities, and a history of a national army that Afghanistan lacks. There are huge cultural barriers to overcome in linguistics and ethnicity that make Iraq look homogenous in comparison. Our military is doing a great job in trying to stand up an army in Afghanistan, but it is an enormous job, and so far the international community is not providing sufficient resources either to rebuild the country or create a sustainable and professional security force. 
   Afghanistan has an even greater problem in the lack of a civic administrative infrastructure. Without the creation of a strong local and central government, we run the risk of creating a well trained army that the government cannot pay for or sustain, further increasing the risk that the Taliban and al-Qaida terrorists could return to power. 
   We need to give more attention and make a greater commitment to Afghanistan. In Kosovo, for example, 25 times more money was pledged on a per capita basis than to Afghanistan and 50 times more troops per capita were sent. Afghanistan needs an estimated $20 billion in assistance over the next 5 years but so far only $7 billion has been pledged and even less received. I worry that, 2 years after the fall of the Taliban, Afghanistan has become the forgotten war even as al-Qaida terrorists and Taliban remnants continue to make it their sanctuary and regroup their forces. 
   I opposed going to war in Iraq when we did. I did not think that the threat posed by weapons of mass destruction was imminent, nor did I think we had taken sufficient time to prepare for the consequences of a prolonged occupation of Iraq. I was concerned that starting another conflict before we had squashed the al-Qaida terrorist threat in Afghanistan would disperse our forces and expose us to even more terrorist problems. To be successful in both, with the least cost to the United States in terms of lives and resources, required an international coalition and consensus along the lines of the one created in the first gulf war. We have yet to achieve that either in Afghanistan, where there is international support but insufficient resources, or in Iraq where the bulk of resources and personnel are being provided by the United States. 
   We need to rebuild support for American foreign policy both abroad and at home. A recent Pew Foundation poll indicates that the U.S. image abroad remains negative in most nations. This cannot be good. For Americans to be secure, we need to be respected, and, as both Iraq and Afghanistan demonstrate, we cannot go it alone unless American citizens want to bear the full burden of sacrifice. We need international support. This does not mean sacrificing American interests to foreign interests, but it means working with other nations to gain a consensus in support of our objectives. In many we are one. 
   At home, too, we need to rebuild bipartisan support for American foreign policy. This has been lost in the last few years. Healthy debate requires a willingness to listen to arguments and to accept those that are valid in order to develop a consensus on American foreign policy. This ability has been lost. 
   Earlier this week, our former colleague, Bill Cohen, spoke before the 9/11 Commission. He talked about ``the kind of poisonous atmosphere that existed then that continues today,'' referring to the questioning of President Clinton's motives when he launched attacks against al-Qaida in Afghanistan and Sudan. Constructive criticism of strategy and oversight of its implementation are essential tools in sharpening the tip of our policy weapons. But they need to take place in an atmosphere where such debate is not just another arrow in the quiver of partisan politics. 
   I pray that one of the successes of the 9/11 Commission and other discussions in this very political year will be a determination to restore comity in foreign policy. 
   My recent travels in Iraq and Afghanistan have convinced me that, if we are to succeed in either country, we need to be prepared to remain in both countries for a long time, and we need to be prepared for additional sacrifices in terms of lives and financial resources. To accept that burden, there has to be a consensus in foreign policy. To bear that burden will require a determination to establish international support for our policies. 
   I thank the Chair. I yield the floor. 
   I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, It is with great pride that I rise to recognize Natasha Kai of Kahuku, HI, for her extraordinary athletic achievements. As a forward for the University of Hawaii Rainbow Wahine soccer team, Natasha was recently named to the 2004 Women's Under 21 National Soccer team. This achievement marks the first time any female athlete from the State of Hawaii has acquired a position on this prestigious, nationally recognized team. After attending two training camps within the last month, Natasha competed amongst 40 of the country's top female athletes to earn a coveted spot on the national team. 
   The national team is currently in China and competing in a tournament with the hopes of making it to the 2004 Nordic Cup, the premier tournament to be held in Iceland later this summer. A few days ago, the national team secured its first exhibition match win triumphing over the Shanghai SVA team. Natasha made her international debut during that match and scored the first goal within the first three minutes of play. The national team is off to a successful start and has two more exhibition matches before they return home. 
   I am doubly proud that Natasha hails from Kahuku High School, which is one of the schools where I first entered the classroom as a teacher. As a multi-talented athlete at Kahuku, Natasha received four varsity letters each in soccer and track, as well as two in volleyball, and one each in basketball and cross country. Natasha was a two-time Oahu Interscholastic Association (OIA) All-Star soccer player, as well as a 2001 All-State player of the year. During her senior season, she led the Red Raider soccer team to a OIA division title win, a first for the school. Natasha earned State track and field honors in the 110 meter hurdles, high jump, and long jump, and was the two-time record holder and State champion in the 300 meter hurdles. In 2001, as a volleyball player she was voted to the OIA-East first team. Basketball accomplishments include being named to the OIA First-team and State Second-team that same year. In addition to her success on the field, Natasha also excelled in the classroom and was an honor student. As one of the most highly recruited female athletes in the State, Natasha decided to stay and pursue her athletic endeavors at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. 
   As a forward on the soccer field, Natasha is known for her explosive speed and skill when evading defenders and scoring goals. During her freshman year with the UH Wahine Rainbow soccer team, she started 16 of the 17 games she appeared in and broke eight school records. Natasha was named the 2002 Western Athletic Conference (WAC) freshman of the year and WAC player of the year, and captured all-WAC first team honors. As a 2002 UH Scholar athlete, she was also selected for the Soccer Buzz freshman All-West region first team and All-American third team. The freshman scored two hat tricks against Tulsa and Boise State during conference play and was named WAC Offensive Player of the Week three times. Last season as a sophomore, Natasha led the Nation in scoring with 29 goals and again received her second WAC player of the year and All-American honors. With the help of this skilled athlete, UH won a record 13 matches and secured its first conference title in 2003. 
   The athletic accolades of Natasha speak volumes of her character, love of the sport of soccer, and dedication to the game. I am confident that all the people of Hawaii, particularly her family and friends, take great pride in her great accomplishments. I wish Natasha and her teammates the best of luck while competing in the tournament and a safe journey home. Win or lose, I extend the support of the country and especially the support of all Hawaii. I thank Natasha for serving as a role model and for reminding us all that through hard work and determination, even what seems like a distant dream can be realized.  
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I have repeatedly voiced my opposition to the Administration's aggressive outsourcing agenda which I believe comes at too high a cost to Federal workers and to Government accountability and cost-effectiveness. My concerns are confirmed by a February 2004 General Accounting Office, GAO, report entitled, ``Competitive Sourcing: Greater Emphasis Needed on Increasing Efficiency and Improving Performance,'' GAO-04-367. I highly recommend this report to my colleagues. 
   The GAO reviewed the Federal outsourcing agenda at seven agencies: the Departments of Defense, Health and Human Services, Interior, Agriculture, Education, and Veteran's Affairs. These agencies contain 84 percent of Federal jobs eligible for outsourcing. The administration has identified 304,800 Federal jobs for outsourcing at the Departments of Defense, Health and Human Services, and Interior alone, which represent nearly 42 percent of the total workforce of these agencies. 
   GAO found that the examined Federal agencies are focusing more on implementing Office of Management and Budget, OMB, mandates on the number of competitions at the expense of cost-efficiency. In 2001, the administration had established the goal of privatizing up to 50 percent of federal jobs. However on July 23, 2003, the OMB's Administrator for Procurement Policy, Angela Styles, testified before the Governmental Affairs Committee that contracting quotas would be terminated and replaced by agency-specific plans. 
   This shift in policy came after repeated criticisms from both sides of the aisle in the Senate and the House of Representatives. For example, the FY03 Transportation, Treasury, and General Government Appropriations Act severely restricted the use of contracting quotas as a result of strong bipartisan opposition. 
   There are important steps we can take now to improve the cost-effectiveness and fairness of public-private competitions. As ranking member of the Governmental Affairs Financial Management Subcommittee and the Senate Armed Services Readiness Subcommittee, I am working to improve the financial transparency and cost-savings of Federal outsourcing policies. Federal contracts should be required to generate at least 10 percent savings over agency costs. The Federal Procurement Data System, FPDS, reports that the Federal Government spent approximately $250 billion on Federal contracts in 2002. The Senate passed FY04 Omnibus Appropriations Act would have required a minimum of 10 percent cost-savings before Federal jobs are contracted out. Unfortunately, this measure was stripped from the FY04 Omnibus Appropriation Act. 
   The GAO report reaffirms the need for a minimum cost-savings in Federal procurement policies. By law, the Department of Defense, DOD, is required to achieve cost-savings before jobs are contracted out. DOD is the largest buyer of contracted services and according to recent FPDS data spent over $164 billion in 2002. 
   We can also improve fairness in public-private competitions. Before decisions are made to contract out Federal work, agencies need the personnel, funding, and technology to ensure that the work is performed in a timely and cost-effective manner. We cannot expect Federal employees to oversee billions of dollars of contracts without these resources, which is why I was disappointed to learn that GAO found that six out of the seven agency offices examined had only one or two employees overseeing outsourcing activities. 
   Moreover, we should level the playing field so that Federal workers have the right to appeal the loss of a competition just as contractors do today. Fair competition must ensure that affected employees have proper appeals and protest rights. Unlike Federal employees, Federal contractors have the right to protest OMB Circular A-76 decisions before the GAO. I am disappointed that the FY04 Omnibus Appropriation Act stripped a provision that would have provided Federal workers the same appeal rights as contractors. 
   I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to ensure that Federal procurement policies offer the best return on the dollar and are fair to Federal workers. The results of this GAO review reaffirms that there is more work to be done in this area. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of the amendment offered by my friend, the Senator from Connecticut, Mr. Lieberman, to address shortfalls in homeland security funding in the President's FY05 Budget Request. As a cosponsor, I believe this amendment would go a long way to ensuring that our homeland security is not shortchanged. 
   I am disappointed that the President's budget request cuts taxes for the wealthy at the expense of funding homeland security programs. Our amendment would restore $2.5 billion in proposed budget cuts and includes an additional $7 billion to strengthen  existing programs. It would also reduce the deficit by offsetting spending with tax cut reductions for those earning more than $1 million a year. 
   Our amendment takes an important step to prepare our first responders by restoring $1 billion for the State Homeland Security Grant Program, which provides first responders critical funding for emergency planning, training, and equipment. 
   This program is crucial for all States, especially States like Hawaii with smaller populations, since a portion of this funding is evenly distributed among all States. 
   Our amendment also takes important steps to ensure that homeland security funding is allocated where it is needed most. It provides $1 billion in much needed funding to address first responder shortfalls for interoperable communications equipment and $600 million for hospitals and public health agencies to respond to emergencies. 
   I am equally disappointed that the President's budget request fails to address the serious funding gaps for port security. In fact, the American Association of Port Authorities has expressed great concern that the President's FY05 budget contains no Federal funds to meet port security requirements. 
   The amendment takes important steps to secure our ports and our economy by providing $1 billion for port and container security and Coast Guard modernization. This funding is critical to Hawaii, where 98 percent of imported goods are transported by sea. This is not just a matter of security for Hawaii or coastal States, but the security of our Nation. 
   According to a Council on Foreign Relations Homeland Security Task Force report entitled, ``America--Still Unprepared, Still in Danger,'' if our Nation's ports suffered a weapons of mass destruction attack, ``the response right now would be to shut the [entire] system down at an enormous cost to the economies of the United States and its trade partners.'' The Task Force report estimates that if American ports were to be closed to containerized cargo for longer than three to four weeks, global shipping container trade would grind to a halt. 
   Our amendment also includes $500 million for aviation security, which would provide for systems to screen air cargo and passengers for explosives. This is an important step towards ensuring adequate funding for security devices needed to detect dangerous material and to prevent a potential crisis. 
   We must ensure that our homeland security is not shortchanged. This is why I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today in support of this important amendment offered by Senator TOM DASCHLE. The Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, of which I am a member, has held hearings on the President's fiscal year 2005 budget request for Indian programs. We have heard from Indian country about the inadequate funding provided for many programs in Indian country. We have heard that American Indians and Alaska Natives have a life expectancy six years less than that of the rest of the United States population, with rates of cardiovascular disease being twice as high for native peoples. 
   Native people die at a rate 500 percent higher than other Americans from tuberculosis and 390 percent higher from diabetes. With the technological advancements that we have made in these areas, most of these illnesses could be prevented if basic health care were available. Unfortunately, the President's budget provides $2.1 billion for IHS clinical services, leaving a shortfall of over 60 percent for fiscal year 2005. 
   The time is now and we must provide Indian country with the ability to ensure that native peoples are given access to essential health care services. I urge my colleagues to support this important amendment, and I thank my dear friend, Senator Daschle, for offering this amendment. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to support an amendment offered by my colleague from Montana, Senator Baucus, the ranking member of the Finance Committee. His amendment seeks to right wrongs perpetuated against low-income families in the budget resolution before us. As he has explained, the pending resolution seeks to make room for further tax cuts by instructing the Finance Committee to make ill-advised cuts of $21.6 billion from Medicaid and the earned-income tax credit, EITC. 
   I am already concerned about the reconciliation instructions in the resolution that would further reduce federal revenues by $80.6 billion for tax cut extensions that we cannot afford. We have felt in the current fiscal year the negative effects of these tax cuts on important domestic programs starved for resources, while we continue to put essential support toward our operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and the global war on terror. I strongly support our men and women in the military who are fighting to preserve our security, and we must not erode further resources from them or the people they are protecting at home by extending tax breaks or making them permanent. Although fully offset relief to lower income families through measures such as the refundable child credit are seductive assumptions under this instruction, I understand that further assumptions in the resolution would allow an earlier repeal of the estate tax in 2009 instead of 2010 and permanency in other areas such as the dividends and capital gains rate structures at a cost of $22.7 billion. Now is simply not the time for such measures. 
   With due respect to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, while we are seeing small promising signs in the economy, my colleagues seem willing to deny the ability of lower income families to help drive economic recovery by raising their taxes. The resolution would partly fund tax cut extensions and permanency on the backs of the working poor with attacks on Medicaid and the earned-income tax credit, EITC. These are simply mean-spirited actions against working families in this country. 
   The budget resolution would increase the number of underinsured and uninsured in this country by cutting more than $11 billion from Medicaid. The impact that this would have on already strained state Medicaid programs and the individuals who rely on this important safety net would be devastating. States continue to face crisis situations with respect to their budgets. We all know that Medicaid makes up a tremendous portion of state budgets, and drastic cuts by states to balance their budgets have swelled the rolls of those without insurance. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities reports that state cuts over the past 2 years have shut between 1.2 million and 1.6 million people out of the Medicaid Program. 
   Additionally, the reductions in Medicaid included in the budget resolution will lead to further cuts in coverage and benefits for people in need. They will prevent individuals from being able to access health care, which will increase the burden on our public health system. The uninsured delay seeking medical treatment, which is likely to lead to more significant and costly problems later on than if they had sought earlier, preventative treatment or had access to proper disease management. These cuts will also further erode the ability of the hospitals, physicians, and other medical providers in our communities to meet the health care needs of the community. Our health care providers who already are confronted with inadequate reimbursements, rising costs, and an increasing demand to provide care for the uninsured. A tremendous $11 billion cut would far exacerbate this problem and perhaps hold tragic consequences for welfare recipients only 
   beginning to rebuild their way to self-sufficiency. 
   The resolution before us would also strike $3 billion from the EITC--a refundable credit that helps lower income individuals and families to meet essential needs--food, clothing, housing, transportation, and education. The Census Bureau notes that the credit lifted nearly 4 million people above the poverty line in 2001. This year, families can expect an average refund of $2,067, which can mean a stay of eviction, transportation to a decent paying job for the year, or food in children's bellies. The EITC can mean the equivalent of a $2 an hour raise in the salary for working mothers and fathers. 
   I would like to present a visual image of just which families are reached by the EITC. As you can see in the chart behind me, courtesy of the Brookings Institution, higher concentrations of EITC recipients are in the dark orange at more than 40 percent, with the percentage decreasing as the colors move to yellow, then blue. We can see how effectively the EITC reaches families and communities in large cities and all across the rural South. Highest concentrations of EITC recipients as a percentage of total filers in a state can be found in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, South Carolina, and Texas. 
   Finally, an analysis of delegations by state clearly shows that the EITC should remain a bipartisan issue. The 18 States that have two Senators from my side of the aisle have 15.2 percent of all EITC earners, while the 19 States with two Senators from the other side of the aisle have an even greater percentage of recipients at 17.2 percent of all EITC filers. All total, EITC assistance of almost $36 billion is lifting our communities representing meaningful relief for millions of EITC earners, whose numbers grew by 8 percent between tax years 2000 and 2002 due to the economic downturn and longer-term unemployment trends. 
   Mr. President, in closing, we should not be attempting to produce savings for ill-timed tax cuts by denying such assistance to those in our states who most need it. Without the Medicaid program and the EITC, many families will go without health services and fundamental, everyday priorities. The Baucus amendment seeks to ensure that the working poor will have access to the healthcare that they and their children need, and the financial assistance that will provide for their essential expenses. 
   I have sent to my colleagues in the Senate a copy of the statement of the low-wage workers. I have also sent a ``Dear Colleague'' letter to each office on the earned-income tax credit map we have shown. 
   I hope all of my colleagues will look at the EITC predicament and support the Baucus amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am in support of this resolution designating April, 2004, as Financial Literacy Month, and asking the President to issue a proclamation calling on the Federal Government, States, localities, schools, nonprofit organizations, businesses, other entities, and the American people to observe the month with appropriate programs and activities. I thank Senators ALLEN, SARBANES, CORZINE, SANTORUM, KOHL, THOMAS, JOHNSON, KENNEDY, SCHUMER, LEVIN, LAUTENBERG, MURRAY, LANDRIEU, DURBIN, INOUYE, and CRAPO for standing with me in advancing financial and economic literacy for our entire citizenry. 
   Last year, the Senate designated April, 2003, as Financial Literacy for Youth Month by adopting my resolution, S.Res. 48, to highlight the need for increased financial and economic literacy and education in our country. Since then, there has been wider recognition that we need to broaden the spotlight to include problems resulting from pervasive financial illiteracy among adults of all ages as well, no matter in which region of the country they live, in which sector of the economy they work, or for which side of the aisle they vote. All of us know at least one person in our lives who has suffered the sometimes tragic and often unavoidable results of not knowing how to create and stick to a budget,  not understanding the merits of maintaining good credit history, or not having the analytical skills to make decisions based on factors in the economy. 
   We are witness to the cumulative results of these individual decisions. Consumer debt rose at a greater rate than was expected in 2003, increasing to nearly $2 trillion in September, 2003, as noted by the Federal Reserve. The rate of foreclosures for FHA loans was the highest ever recorded in the third quarter of 2003, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association National Delinquency Survey. The Congressional Research Service reports that the percentage of income used for household debt payments, including mortgages, credit cards, and student loans, rose to the highest level in more than a decade in 2001 and remained above 13 percent in 2003. Also, that personal savings as a percentage of personal income decreased from 7.5 percent in the early 1980s to 2.3 percent in the first three-quarters of 2003. As reported in the Associated Press, personal bankruptcies nearly doubled in the past decade, including more than 1.6 million people who filed for personal bankruptcy in fiscal year 2003. And a final sign of our times, despite technological advances that make it even more convenient and less costly to manage our money through accounts at banks and credit unions, Fannie Mae reports that between 25 million and 56 million adults are `unbanked', or not using mainstream, insured financial institutions. All of this tells me that we cannot overlook our adult population and their need for financial literacy and education. 
   Even so, prevention remains key, and education lies at the heart of prevention. We must continue to work in our schools to convey important and practical lessons personal finance and economics, so that our students may leave secondary and postsecondary, and even elementary education, with age-appropriate tools and skills that they may continue to hone throughout their lives. In addition to learning and practicing the essential basics in reading, writing, and arithmetic, they should understand how they can do their part toward helping their families stick to the budget constructed on the kitchen table, saving toward their college tuition, 
   or helping to identify future opportunities that will benefit everyone in their families in the long run. 
   As an example, the Hawaii Council on Economic Education, with assistance from the Securities Education Division within the Hawaii Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs, is sponsoring the Hawaii Stock Market Simulation, which is an interactive tool to help students learn about how the U.S. financial market system works. By gaining an understanding of the securities markets, students in third grade through twelfth grade can learn about the importance of saving and investing to help provide a sound economic and financial base for their own future. Student teams invest a hypothetical $100,000 in stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and compete statewide. Last year, I met with some of the winning teams who, in the short 10-week period, raised the value of their portfolio to as much as $130,273.49--an amount accomplished by a team from Kalani High School. In the Fall 2003 competition, a team from Keaau High School achieved a portfolio value of $129,930.42. Even in the elementary division in the most recent competition, a team from Moanalua Middle School invested successfully for a portfolio of $117,877,73. This is just one example of the types of competitions held around the country that gets kids excited in investing and saving while cautioning them about speculation, pulling their parents and other family members into the exercise, and give them the tools to analyze their own personal finance decisions, well into their adult years. 
   Support for economic and financial literacy efforts in our schools is a worthwhile investment for our country to make in our future generations. I am highlighting this point in this resolution, as well as working to provide more resources through the Excellence in Economic Education Act for K-12 education--rather than terminating this program as President George W. Bush recommended in his fiscal year 2005 budget, and working with my colleague from Wyoming, Senator ENZI, to strengthen this investment in our students in colleges and universities through our bill, S. 1968, the Financial Literacy in Higher Education Act. 
   And once again, economic and financial literacy must reach adults in this country, particularly to help those who are heads of households, workers, and business owners plan for short- and long-term investment, savings, and retirement, as well as avoid the grasp of predatory lenders that peddle products such as high-interest Refund Anticipation Loans, high-cost remittances, payday lending, and abusive financial marketing practices. I call to the attention of my colleagues the establishment of the Financial Literacy and Education Commission, and look forward to its development of a national strategy that will coordinate Federal efforts in financial and economic literacy. I also recognize the efforts of organizations such as the Jump$tart Coalition for Personal Financial Literacy, the National Council on Economic Education, and others on the forefront of this movement for their parallel endeavors. 
   I urge my colleagues in the Senate to join me in commemorating all of these efforts to forward financial and economic literacy in this country by recognizing April 2004 as Financial Literacy Month, and I urge that they support this resolution. 
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, public service is a long and honored tradition in the United States. Through the dedicated commitment and tireless service of our Nation's Federal workforce, our country is safer and more secure than ever. I wish to take this opportunity to honor one such person, Daniel L. Mihalko, who since January 28, 1978, has served as a postal inspector in the U.S. Postal Inspection Service. After serving as a postal inspector for the past 26 years of his 31-year career with the Postal Service, Inspector Mihalko retired on March 2, 2004. 
   Inspector Mihalko was known to many in congress as their contact with the Postal Inspection Service in his capacity as the inspector in charge of congressional and public affairs. He was also known to the American public as the face of the Inspection Service when discussing issues such as the anthrax attacks through the U.S. mail in 2001 or pipe bombs in midwestern mailboxes. He professionally represented the Inspection Service in television appearances ranging from shows such as ``60 Minutes'' and ``Larry King Live'' to all the major television networks. 
   In addition to Inspector Mihalko's service as spokesman for the Postal Inspection Service, he was the guiding force behind several high-profile publicity campaigns: Project kNOw Fraud, National Fraud Against Seniors, and Awareness and Operation: Identity Crisis--important educational programs directed at increasing consumer awareness of mail fraud and deceptive mailing practices. His official appearances added to public confidence in the mail, and it is fitting that upon Inspector Mihalko's retirement from the Postal Inspection Service, we take a moment to recognize the Federal agency he promoted so well. 
   The United States Postal Inspection Service protects the integrity of our Nation's postal system and is one of the country's oldest law enforcement agencies. Founded in 1772 by the first Postmaster General, Benjamin Franklin, the Postal Inspection Service is the primary law enforcement arm of the U.S. Postal Service. Initially the Inspection Service helped regulate and audit postal functions, but in 1830, these functions were expanded and its auditors became special agents. By the late 1800s, special agents were renamed postal inspectors, and, in 1916, solved the last known stage-coach robbery in the United States. The modern Postal Inspection Service enforces more than 200 Federal laws relating to the U.S. mail, including identify fraud, mail bombs, child pornography, controlled substances, counterfeit stamps, money laundering, robbery, and mail theft. Because of overlapping jurisdictions, postal inspectors work closely with U.S. Attorneys, other law enforcement agencies, and local prosecutors to investigate postal cases and prepare them for court. Inspectors are aided in their work through five regional forensic crime labs strategically located throughout the United States which support field office operations. 
   As the former chairman of the Senate Postal Subcommittee, I have had the privilege of supporting this distinguished Department and have had to postal inspectors/attorneys as detailees on my staff. Inspector Mihalko is a fine example of the men and women who make up the Postal Inspection Service, and I wish Mr. Mihalko and his family well.  
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I wish to join my colleagues in offering my congratulations to my friend and colleague, Hawaii's senior Senator and statesman, DAN INOUYE, as he marks his 15,036th day of service in the Senate and becomes the fifth longest serving Senator in the history of our Republic. 
   I am proud to serve alongside a true patriot and American hero, and to offer a few words recognizing his many contributions and commitment to public service. The people of Hawaii and our great Nation appreciate the leadership and direction he has provided, leadership which has bettered and strengthened our country. The scope of his contributions is matched only by his continued strong and effective leadership  on behalf of our State, on behalf of our men and women in uniform, on behalf of Native Americans, and on so many other matters, in the Senate. 
   I am certain I speak for all the people of Hawaii when I say thank you, DAN INOUYE, son of Hawaii, for over four decades of exemplary service and commitment to our State and our Nation. We are very proud of our senior Senator. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to call attention to the urgent need to prepare America against an attack on our agriculture. The Nation's agriculture industry is crucial to our prosperity. Yet it does not receive the protection it needs. Our food supply system is vulnerable to accidental or intentional contamination that would damage our economy, and, most importantly, could cost lives. 
   There is no need to question whether animal-borne diseases can actually threaten the United States. Look to last December's mad cow disease outbreak: only one cow was found to be infected, and yet the U.S. beef industry was thrown into a tailspin from which it still has not recovered. As a result: American cattle prices fell by 20 percent; some predict beef exports will fall by 90 percent from 2003 to 2004; and more than 40 foreign countries have instituted bans on American beef, most of which will not be lifted in the near future. This fallout resulted from the infection of only two cows. 
   In the beginning of February, a version of the avian influenza, a disease sweeping through Southeast Asian poultry that has killed at least 22 people to date, was discovered on two Delaware chicken farms. It also surfaced in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, and a far more contagious strain was later reported in Texas. While the two strains found in these States carry no know risk to humans, this discovery illustrates how easily an animal-borne disease can break out in the United States. Only four farms and one live chicken market have tested positive for the disease. Yet this discovery resulted in the slaughter of over 92,000 chickens in the U.S. to date and a ban on American poultry exports in a number of Asian countries and the European Union. 
   We should learn two things from these recent outbreaks: No. 1, the cost to the agriculture community for even a small outbreak is high, and, No. 2, we must be prepared for the unexpected. 
   While the emergence of mad cow and the avian flu in American agriculture has been detrimental, it has not come close to causing the amount of damage a larger outbreak could create. 
   Imagine if either of these diseases spread across the Nation instead of being contained to just a few farms. 
   Or worse, imagine if the strain of the avian flu that is currently claiming human lives in Asia was found in the United States. 
   In these scenarios, the outbreak would have been far more difficult to contain and much more costly to our Nation. 
   A 1994 Department of Agriculture study said that if a foreign animal disease became entrenched in the United States, it would cost the agriculture industry at least $5.4 billion. A 2002 report by the National Defense University predicted that this figure would be three to fives times greater today. On a smaller scale, an outbreak that only penetrated 10 farms could have as much as a $2 billion economic impact. 
   Earlier this month, the President released Homeland Security Presidential Directive 9, HSPD-9, aimed at addressing many of these concerns. HSPD-9 is a great first step. It signals the administration is aware of the vulnerability in our agriculture sector and considers this to be a homeland security priority. 
   Under HSPD-9, the President directed the Department of Homeland Security to ensure the execution of a number of much needed security measures, including the following: 
   Develop surveillance and monitoring systems for animal and plant disease and the food supply that provide early detection of poisonous agents; develop nationwide laboratory networks for food, veterinary, and plant health that ensures communication and coordination between related facilities; and develop a National Veterinary Stockpile that contains enough vaccine and antiviral products to respond to the most damaging animal diseases. 
   But the President's initiative does not go far enough because it fails to address a number of serious shortcomings with the current governmental response to agriculture security, such as: Lack of communication between Federal agencies; insufficient coordination with, and funding for, State and local officials; inadequate international collaboration; and the impeding nature of some State and local laws to effective response plans. 
   To address these many concerns, I introduced two bills, S. 427, the Agriculture Security Assistance Act, and S. 430, the Agriculture Security Preparedness Act, to increase the coordination in confronting the threat to America's agriculture industry and provide the needed resources. My legislation provides for more targeted State and local funding and a better-coordinated Federal system. 
   The Agriculture Security Assistance Act would assist States and communities in responding to threats to the agriculture industry by authorizing funds for: Animal health professionals to participate in community emergency planning activities to assist farmers in strengthening their defenses against a terrorist threat; a biosecurity grant program for farmers and ranchers to provide needed funding to better secure their properties; and the use of sophisticated remote sensing and computer modeling approaches to agricultural diseases. 
   The Agriculture Security Preparedness Act would enable better interagency coordination within the Federal Government by: Establishing senior level liaisons in the Departments of Homeland Security, DHS, and Health and Human Services to coordinate with the Department of Agriculture, USDA, and all other relevant agencies on agricultural disease emergency management and response; requiring DHS and USDA to work with the Department of Transportation to address the risks associated with transporting animals, plants, and people between and around farms; requiring the Attorney General to conduct a review of relevant Federal, State, and local laws to determine if they facilitate or impede agricultural security; and directing the State Department to enter into mutual assistance agreements with foreign governments to facilitate the share of resources and knowledge of foreign animal diseases. 
   Over 30 Federal agencies have jurisdiction over some part of the response process in the event of a breach of agricultural security. In a report on the United State's preparedness for responding to animal-borne diseases issued in August 2003, Trust for America's Health, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization founded to raise the profile of public health issues, stated that, ``The U.S. is left with a myriad of bureaucratic jurisdictions that respond to various aspects of the diseases, with little coordination and no clear plan for communicating with the public about the health threats posed by animal-borne diseases.'' Protecting America's agriculture and its citizens requires Federal agencies to know who is responsible for what portion of the prevention and response to an attack on our agriculture. 
   State and local officials, and the communities they serve, are the front  lines of defense for American agriculture. Without adequate resources, both in terms of funding and advice, these defenses will fail. While the presidential directive mandates the creation of a coordinated response plan that would include Federal, State, and local partners, it falls short of supplying the State and local officials with the necessary funding and guidance to better protect their jurisdiction. Surprisingly, the administration proposes huge cuts in fiscal year 2005 to homeland security grants for the States. 
   We have witnessed the impact a small, unintentional outbreak of mad cow disease had on our country. We cannot wait for a far more damaging and widespread attack on our agriculture system. While I commend the President's initiative in this area, further action is needed. I urge my colleagues to support this overdue legislation to protect America's breadbasket. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to prohibit the comparative cost adjustment program, which is commonly known as premium support, from operating in Hawaii. 
   The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 included the creation of premium support demonstration programs in select metropolitan statistical areas starting in 2010. In these demonstration programs, seniors would be provided with a defined contribution payment for Medicare Part B rather than a defined benefit. Seniors would receive a set minimum payment to be used towards enrolling in either traditional fee-for-service Medicare or a managed care plan. Seniors that choose options that are more expensive than the defined premium would have to pay the difference themselves. 
   Many of the older and less healthier seniors stay in the traditional fee-for-service Medicare rather than enrolling in Medicare managed care programs. The defined contribution premium will likely not be able to cover the entire cost of their fee-for-service premium. So, they may not be able to afford to stay in the traditional Medicare program and will be forced to enroll in lowest-cost health maintenance organization, HMO, or preferred provider organization, PPO, in their community. Seniors deserve to have their right to choose whether to remain in traditional Medicare or enroll in a managed care program based on their health care needs and not be forced into managed care programs because they are not able to pay the increased premium required for traditional Medicare. 
   Now, seniors across the country pay the same premium for Medicare Part B services. After the implementation of the premium support demonstration programs, this will not be the case. Not only are there likely to be wide variations in Medicare Part B premium rates for beneficiaries across the country, but there will even be differences among seniors within the same State. This is unjust. Seniors that receive the same benefits should be paying the same premium in an entitlement program such as Medicare. 
   Proponents of the premium support plan believe that this will help control Medicare costs and save money. However, this proposal will only work if more of the costs are shifted to seniors who will have to pay higher premiums or have their benefits reduced. 
   It is my hope that these demonstration projects are never implemented in any state. My legislation would ensure that the residents of Hawaii are protected from having this demonstration program impair their Medicare Part B choices. I am pleased that several of my colleagues have also introduced  legislation to protect seniors in their states from the premium support demonstration projects. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD.  
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to express my concern that the threat posed by the detonation of a ``dirty bomb'' has not been adequately addressed. Controlling access to the radioactive materials needed to fabricate such a weapon remains a challenge today, just as it did in the days immediately following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Security improvements have been slow to come. Dirty bombs continue to threaten the people and the economy of the United States. 
   Radioactive sealed sources are all around us. They are used widely in medicine, research, industry, and agriculture. Some of these sources are more risky than others, and Congress must take action to ensure the control and safe disposal of those sources that pose the greatest risk. These sources, known as ``greater-than-Class-C'' sealed sources, are of major concern because of their potential for use in the fabrication of a dirty bomb. 
   To address this risk, I introduced S. 1045, the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Act of 2003, this past May. My bill addresses the efforts made by the Department of Energy, DOE, to recover and dispose of thousands of domestic greater-than-Class-C radiological sources. This measure was developed after three different U.S. General Accounting Office reports I requested showed that the efforts being made by DOE and other Federal agencies to control and dispose of these radioactive sources, both domestically and internationally, have not gone far enough. 
   Provisions of S. 1045 were included in H.R. 6, the Energy Policy Act of 2003, but as debate over the energy bill continues, radioactive sources remain a threat to our country. Over the holidays, there was a serious concern about the possible detonation of a dirty bomb at one of the large open-air New Year's Eve celebrations around the country. The DOE took serious and prudent action to detect possible terrorist activities and thankfully this situation did not end in tragedy. However, next time we may not be so lucky. The lack of a safe, secure, and permanent disposal site for unwanted radioactive sealed sources places our country at risk. 
   Thousands of sealed sources await disposal, some requiring security measures greater than those in place at current storage facilities. The problem posed by these sources will not go away by itself. Universities and industry do not have the means or facilities to secure these materials and are seeking Federal Government assistance. In my own State, the University of Hawaii is currently seeking the assistance of the DOE to remove large unwanted radioactive sources, belonging to DOE, that are no longer useful for their research. While DOE is working on a solution, the sources remain in Hawaii awaiting disposal. My bill would require the DOE to fulfill their statutory obligation to develop a disposal facility for all of these sources, in consultation with Congress, and would also require that DOE explore Federal and non-Federal alternative disposal options to make sure that the best disposal method is chosen. 
   However, my concern over radioactive material does not end here. I will continue my work to improve Federal oversight of radioactive sources and devices. Just a few weeks ago in New Jersey, a gauge containing radioactive material was damaged, and its radioactive material is still missing. Creating a disposal facility for this class of radioactive waste is only the beginning of getting this problem under control. We need to improve the licensing and tracking of these widely used sources and devices, so that they will not fall into the wrong hands. 
   When the United States began non-proliferation efforts in the former Soviet Union, one of the first jobs was to begin consolidating nuclear weapons and fissile materials in secure facilities to await disposal or destruction. Due to worries about terrorists acquiring dirty bombs, the DOE is now working to secure radiological sources in many countries oversees. I support these efforts. A theft this month of cesium-137 in China re-emphasizes the need to work with other countries to collect and dispose of unwanted radiological materials. The cesium, stolen by scrap metal thieves, ended up being melted by a steel mill. The mill is now contaminated and will have to undergo expensive clean-up efforts. While this type of incident is less likely to happen in the U.S., we must learn from this, and take steps to protect our nation from these materials. We should take the lead in helping other nations secure their radioactive material, for the good of us all. 
   The bill that I introduced and which is cosponsored by Senators BINGAMAN and LANDRIEU, will give radiological sources and waste on American soil a safe and secure, permanent disposal facility. Before September 11, 2001, collecting and securing these sources was a matter of public safety, now it is a national security concern that demands the attention of Congress. I urge my colleagues to support the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Act of 2003, to ensure that our nation is better protected from the dangers of dirty bombs. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the conference report to the Omnibus appropriations bill that the Senate has been considering. Without question, we have a duty to ensure the continuing operations of our Government, and the package before us would enable this for a majority of the agencies and programs of the U.S. Government. I thank the appropriators on both sides of the aisle, including the senior Senator from Hawaii, Mr. Inouye, for their efforts in crafting this massive funding package, and particularly for their agreement on several provisions significant to the people of Hawaii that will meet urgent needs in transportation, education, agriculture, and juvenile justice. For example, funds included for the Juvenile Justice Information System will significantly enhance efforts by law enforcement officials and child-serving agencies in Hawaii to address the root causes of juvenile criminal behavior. This promises to have a tremendous impact on Hawaii's efforts to address juvenile crime. 
   I am also pleased that this package includes $1.5 million to initiate programs under the Excellence in Economic Education Act, to increase financial and economic literacy in our country. I also am a strong proponent of the $100 million in funding for the Mentoring and Mentoring Children of Prisoners programs, to ensure that young people in Hawaii and the Nation have access to the support, guidance, and assistance they need to help them through life's difficult and varied situations. These are a couple of the many initiatives that I feel very strongly about and worked on with my colleagues during the fiscal year 2004 appropriations process. 
   However, on balance, the flaws in this Omnibus package overshadow its favorable provisions. It is important to remember that we are here to serve in the best interest of our Nation. While differences in philosophy will always exist, as Members of Congress, we still have an obligation to work together, to look beyond those differences and find solutions. I do not believe that the Omnibus contains solutions that best serve all who live in our great Nation. 
   For example, as the ranking member of the Senate Governmental Affairs Financial Management Subcommittee, and the Armed Services Readiness and Management Support Subcommittee, I object to the elimination of two key measures from the Senate-passed Transportation-Treasury-General Government appropriations bill that would have improved fairness and cost-efficiency in Federal contracting. The Omnibus deletes a provision which would promote equity by granting Federal workers the same rights as private contractors to appeal decisions to contract out Government jobs. The Omnibus also strikes a requirement for minimal cost savings before decisions are made to contract out Federal work. To ensure accountability and transparency, Government contracting policies must achieve the best return on the dollar and be fair to Federal workers. These two goals are complementary. 
   The measure before us today fails to ensure diversity of our airwaves and deprives millions of workers of their right to overtime pay. In both cases, the other body and the Senate were in agreement on how to rectify these matters. However, the conferees, in working with the administration, determined that there should be a limit on the Federal Communications Commission's ability to grant licenses to only those stations that reach more than 39 percent instead of 35 percent of a market. In addition, the package before us will allow the U.S. Department of Labor to continue working on and finalizing its proposed rule to modernize and redefine exemptions from the Fair Labor Standards Act, which many employees have said will 
   take away their right to be fairly compensated for work performed above their normal work schedule. The majority in Congress rejected the DOL proposal and urged the leadership to maintain the Senate approved provision that would have prohibited the DOL from using funds to promulgate or implement its proposed rule. 
   The conference report fails not only in the case of worker's rights and consumer rights, but also in consumer safety. During consideration of the Agriculture appropriations bill, I offered an amendment that would have prohibited the U.S. Department of Agriculture from using any funds to approve for human consumption any meat products from downed animals. This amendment was agreed to in the Senate. While the other body defeated a similar amendment offered by Representative GARY ACKERMAN of New York, many of his colleagues later indicated that they were unable to vote that day and would have supported his amendment. The support would have been enough to accept the amendment. It is unfortunate that Congress, in earlier legislative vehicles, and the conferees in this package, chose not to be proactive in protecting our food supply. For more than 12 years, I have been working to address this matter, and my amendment was the most recent example of that. While the USDA is making some strides to now address mad cow disease in cattle, we need to codify their efforts and expand the ban to all downer livestock that may pose a risk to human health, the importance of which was highlighted recently with the discovery of a diseased downer cow in the Pacific northwest. 
   Related to the Commerce Department, the provisions funding ocean exploration activities, marine aquaculture development, and coral reef research are disappointing. At the proposed levels, our country will not be able to promote an economically viable and environmentally feasible aquaculture industry to address the $7 billion seafood trade deficit. Activities exploring the deep ocean, one of the last scientific frontiers on Earth, need to be a greater priority in order for us to properly manage and protect these fragile marine communities. I am also concerned that an estimated 25 percent of the world's coral reefs have been lost and at least 30 percent are threatened by human activities. Funding levels in this conference report are insufficient to support research and monitoring activities for coral reefs, one of the most biologically diverse ecosystems on Earth that is worth hundreds of billions of dollars in marine services for our country and is certainly very important for Hawaii. 
   Although important education priorities are provided for, this conference report continues to fall short on major programs, particularly those that help disadvantaged and special education students. Public schools in every State are struggling to comply with the No Child Left Behind Act. However, budget shortfalls at the State level resulting from a fragile economy have restricted the resources available to our  classrooms. Our failure to fully fund the Federal commitment Congress made when it enacted the No Child Left Behind Act further strains the situation and sets even more schools up for ``failure'' and more teachers unable to become ``highly qualified.'' The same goes for the commitment that we made even earlier in our history to fund the Federal portion of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. It may have been many years since I led a classroom as a teacher or a school as its principal, but I remember the support that we needed to ensure that all of our children receive a top-notch education. 
   Everything that I have recounted here--sentiments echoed by several of my colleagues--leads me to conclude that I am unable to support the package before us, in its current form. I urge the appropriators in both bodies of Congress to improve this package so that it can be something that all of us can support. 
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the service of Master Sergeant Dennis Takeshita, a member of the Hawaii Air National Guard. After 37 years of exemplary commitment and dedicated service in defense of our great Nation and 30 years in the Air National Guard, Master Sergeant Takeshita retired on October 3, 2003. 
   Master Sergeant Takeshita's career experiences have been extensive. He received a commission into the Air Force Reserves in 1966 and served on active duty until 1972. Soon after his honorable discharge from the United States Air Force, Master Sergeant Takeshita joined the Hawaii Air National Guard. He is a decorated soldier who has received numerous citations and awards for his outstanding service and professionalism. 
   A graduate of St. Louis High School in Honolulu and the University of Hawaii, Master Sergeant Takeshita's career has been one of dedication, service and sacrifice. He served a combat tour of duty during the Vietnam conflict from 1968 to 1969, as well as Operations Allied Force, Noble Eagle, and Enduring Freedom. 
   Master Sergeant Takeshita is to be commended for his long tenure, unwavering patriotism, courageous service, unselfish leadership, and individual contributions to the defense of the United States. I applaud the distinguished career of Master Sergeant Dennis Takeshita and express my best wishes for a well-deserved and enjoyable retirement.  
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss how to prepare our Nation against a terrorist attack on our agriculture. Senator COLLINS, chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee, is to be commended for holding a hearing last week on a critical issue which has received little congressional attention. I am deeply concerned about our agricultural security. In July and October 2001, I held two hearings on the Nation's preparedness for a bioterror attack. The threat to our agricultural industry by potential terrorists is not imagined; it is very real. 
   One expert likened the American agricultural industry to a large bulls-eye stamped across the United States. Dr. Peter Chalk, a RAND policy analyst, testified that an attack on American livestock could be extremely attractive to a terrorist for the following four reasons: (1) a low level of technology is needed to do considerable damage, (2) at least 15 pathogens have the capability of severely harming the agriculture industry, (3) a terrorist would not need to be at great personal risk in order to carry out a successful attack, and (4) a disease could spread quickly throughout a city, state, or even the country. 
   In Afghanistan, hundreds of pages of U.S. agricultural documents were discovered in al-Qaeda's possession. A recent unclassified CIA report confirmed that the September 11th hijackers were attempting to gain knowledge and access to crop-dusting aircraft which could be used to easily contaminate America's food supply. 
   An agroterrorisk attack would have severe economic costs to agricultural producers, State and Federal Governments, and exporters of U.S. food products. The widespread contamination of  American produce or livestock could cause mass panic and long-lasting fear of American produced food products. Dr. Chalk cited a study conducted in California that concluded that ``each day of delay in instituting effective eradication and control measures would cost the state $1 billion in trade sanctions.'' The economic repercussions are almost unimaginable. 
   Yet within the Federal Government, no agency has the clear responsibility for preventing and containing an agroterrorist attack. Over 30 Federal agencies have jurisdiction over some part of the response process. This bifurcation of jurisdiction contributes to confusion among local and State officials as to where to turn for assistance and advice. According to a recent General Accounting Office, GAO, report Federal 
   agencies are confused about the chain of command. The report states that neither the Food and Drug Administration, FDA, nor the Department of Agriculture, USDA, believe that they have the authority to enforce security at U.S. food processing plants. GAO states that ``both FDA and USDA have instructed their field inspection personnel to refrain from enforcing any aspects of the security guidelines because the agencies generally believe that they lack such authority.'' 
   When questioned at the Governmental Affairs Committee hearing last week, Dr. Penrose Albright, Assistant Secretary for Science and Technology in the Department of Homeland Security, DHS, indicated that the responsibility of leadership would likely fall to DHS in the event of an intentional attack on the Nation's agriculture and stated that DHS ``takes these responsibilities seriously,'' but stopped short of asserting that the new department had overall responsibility. I have asked DHS for clarification on this issue. 
   Dr. Albright also said that an unintentional contamination of American agriculture would not involve DHS. His response demonstrates a serious deficiency in the Federal Government's crisis response procedure. If there were an incident, who would lead the response in the hours or days before the cause of an outbreak was known? One agency must shoulder the responsibility for coordinating an immediate response regardless of the cause. 
   To address these concerns, I introduced two bills, S. 427, the Agriculture Security Assistance Act, and S. 430, the Agriculture Security Preparedness Act, to increase the coordination in confronting the threat to America's agriculture industry and provide the needed resources. My legislation provides for better funding and a better coordinated response and defense to an agroterrorist attack. 
   The Agriculture Security Assistance Act would assist States and communities in responding to threats to the agriculture industry. The measure authorizes funds for communities and states to increase their ability to handle a crisis. It also encourages animal health professionals to participate in community emergency planning activities to assist farmers in strengthening their defenses against a terrorist threat. 
   The Agriculture Security Preparedness Act would enable better interagency coordination within the Federal Government. The legislation establishes senior level liaisons in the Departments of Homeland Security and Health and Human Services to coordinate with USDA on agricultural disease emergency management and response. The bill also requires DHS and USDA to work with the Department of Transportation to address the risks associated with transporting Animals, plants, and people between and around farms. 
   No doubt a terrorist attack on American agriculture could have a devastating effect on the United States. Our Nation's capability to counter such an attack is increasing, but more needs to be done. My two bills would help our Nation act now so that a future agroterrorist attack can be avoided or quickly responded to before the damage in lives or livestock is too great. I urge my colleagues to support this overdue legislation. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce the Financial Literacy in Higher Education Act with Senator Enzi and original cosponsors of S. 1800, the College LIFE, Literacy in Finance and Economics Act, Senators SARBANES and CORZINE. 
   This is truly a bipartisan compromise on the provisions of S. 1800, the College LIFE Act, and I appreciate Senator Enzi's willingness to collaborate on this matter. As in S. 1800, the Financial Literacy in Higher Education Act proposes a pilot program for five higher education institutions to encourage students to take a personal finance course and participate in preventive annual credit counseling, working in conjunction with State or local public, private, and nonprofit entities selected by the local education agency or the school, and measuring the effectiveness of efforts in any behavioral changes that may result. 
   The bill emphasizes the importance of personal finance and economic education and counseling by authorizing these activities as allowable uses in existing Higher Education Act programs, such as TRIO, GEAR UP, and title III and title V Serving Institutions. These are programs that have been successful in expanding higher education access to populations with unique needs and, therefore, are ideal avenues through which we can further the important components of financial and economic literacy, such as wise budgeting, saving, debt management, tax preparation, and avoiding predatory or abusive practices. 
   The bill promotes greater collaboration with and support from Federal agencies in the higher education arena with respect to economic and financial literacy, including coordination with the Financial Literacy and Education Commission, which was created by title V of H.R. 2622, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003. The conference report of H.R. 2622 was adopted recently by this Chamber and the other body. For those who may not be familiar with the Commission, the new entity will work to improve financial literacy and education in the United States through the development of a national strategy. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan effort to increase the financial and economic literacy of our college students. I will also work with my colleagues on advancing the grant programs in S. 1800 that are not in our compromise package, because I feel that those, too, are important parts of our overall effort. Students in higher education are some of our Nation's best and brightest, and we must work to give them the tools that will help them succeed. Not the least among these is literacy in personal finance and economics. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to express my opposition to the conference report for H.R. 1, the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003. 
   For far too long Medicare has lacked a prescription drug benefit. The lack of this benefit has been the gaping hole in the Medicare safety net. I have consistently supported efforts to establish a meaningful Medicare prescription drug benefit. I supported S. 1, the Prescription Drug and Medicare Improvement Act of 2003, because it would have been an important step forward in meeting the prescription drug needs of seniors. I am extremely disappointed that instead of making improvements in the Senate-passed bill, the conference report is now a false promise to our seniors. Mr. President, the conference report contains too many flaws to warrant passage. The conference report lacks appropriate prescription drug coverage for seniors. Indeed, many seniors will be worse off under this proposal. The conference report also weakens the existing Medicare entitlement program. 
   The prescription drug coverage in this legislation is simply not comprehensive enough. Too small an allowance is provided within the legislation to establish a meaningful prescription drug benefit for seniors. Instead of reducing the size of the coverage gap, the conference report would require that seniors pay for all of their drug costs after their total drug spending reaches $2,250. Despite continuing to pay their premiums, they will not receive any additional support until they spend about $5,000. This gap is about twice as large as the gap that was contained in the Senate-passed bill. Why should seniors have to continue to pay premiums when they do not receive any benefits if they are in the gap? This coverage gap must be filled. 
   Mr. President, for too many seniors in Hawaii and across the nation, prescription drug coverage will be worse under the provisions in the conference report. Seniors who are currently provided prescription drugs through their state's Medicaid programs will have federally mandated copayments imposed on them. For example, Hawaii's seniors who have incomes of less than 100 percent of the poverty level and obtain their medications through Hawaii's Medicaid program will be worse off under this plan. They will now have to pay copayments to get their prescription medication. Hawaii's seniors are not alone. The Center for Budget and Policy Priorities believes that most of the 6.4 million individuals that have dual eligibility for Medicare and Medicaid will be charged more under the conference agreement for medication than under existing law. 
   I am afraid that too many low-income seniors will not be able to afford even these meager copayments. Those who cannot meet these copayments will be denied access to the medications they are currently being provided. Again, they will go without the treatment they need. In addition, the financial burden that the conference report places on states may lead to a reduction in other Medicaid services that states will no longer be able to afford, because of the substantial share of prescription drug costs that states will have to pay the federal government for seniors who are eligible for Medicare and Medicaid. 
   Mr. President, I am also concerned about the millions of retirees that will lose their existing coverage. We have seen over the past few years that there has been a disturbing trend of reducing benefits for retirees. Creating this voluntary benefit will only accelerate this trend. The intent of the legislation is to expand prescription drug coverage for seniors, not merely to shift the financial burden of existing coverage to the federal government. Many seniors will be forced to rely on Medicare, which will provide a less generous benefit than what they currently enjoy. It is estimated that 17,850 Medicare beneficiaries in my home state of Hawaii will lose their retiree 
   health benefits as a result of the enactment of this legislation. If Medicare beneficiaries lose their employer-based coverage, they may have to pay more for a Medicare drug benefit that provides less comprehensive coverage. Despite the subsidies included in the conference report to encourage the continuation of existing coverage, it is estimated that approximately 2.5 million people will lose their coverage. 
   Mr. President, I along with Senators WARNER, ALLEN, MIKULSKI, SARBANES, JOHNSON, and CORZINE requested that the conferees include our bill, S. 1369, in the conference report to ensure that present and future federal retirees receive the same level of prescription drug coverage. The government's Federal Employee Health Benefit (FEHBP) program for its employees and retirees stands as a model for all employer-sponsored health care plans. Our legislation would protect prescription drug benefits for federal retirees by ensuring parity for these benefits with other FEHBP subscribers. The other body approved companion legislation, H.R. 2631, on July 8, 2003. While the Medicare reform bill includes subsidies and tax credits to employers who retain existing drug benefits for their retirees, such incentives provide no guarantee of the FEHBP drug benefit for the government's own annuitants. If FEHBP is the model for this reform, the federal government must not drop or reduce drug benefits for retired FEHBP enrollees. Our legislation sends a message to other employer-sponsored plans that the federal government stands behind its commitment to retired workers. I will continue to work to bring about the enactment of this bill. 
   Mr. President, the cost containment provisions in the legislation provide a fast-track legislative process to cut Medicare benefits if general revenue funding for the entire Medicare program exceeds 45 percent. This arbitrary process is included while more meaningful provisions to control the costs of prescription drugs were left out. The conference report prevents the federal government from using the bargaining power of 40 million senior citizens to  bring down the cost of prescription drugs for the Medicare program. 
   Mr. President, the conference report weakens Medicare. It imposes means tests for Medicare Part B premiums and for low-income subsidies for the prescription drug benefit. This is the beginning of the end of Medicare being as a universal benefit. This is the first step towards means testing other parts of the existing Medicare program. Means tests place greater burdens on seniors. They also create administrative difficulties for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. 
   Even more objectionable is the assets test used to determine the low-income subsidies for the prescription drug benefit. The assets test is completely unrealistic. According to Families USA, the assets test will deny subsidies to 2.8 million very low-income seniors if they have even a small amount of assets. For example, the assets test disqualifies people who have household goods and personal effects worth more than $2,000. Medicare is an entitlement and participants should not be subjected to these demeaning means tests. Additional assistance should not be denied because they happen to have set money aside for future expenses. 
   Mr. President, this legislation also threatens existing Medicare benefits because it includes billions of dollars for subsidies for private plans. This increases premiums for seniors, raises government costs for health care, and damages the solvency of the Medicare trust fund. 
   Mr. President, I also want to express my disappointment that language similar to an amendment that I had offered, which was accepted as part of the manager's package for S. 1, was not included in the conference report. While I thank Chairman Grassley and ranking member BAUCUS for their assistance with this provision, it was not included in the conference report. My amendment would have allowed my home state of Hawaii to benefit from the increase in Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (DSH) payments included in the bill. Medicaid DSH 
   payments are designed to provide additional support to hospitals that treat large numbers of Medicaid and uninsured patients. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (BBA) created specific DSH allotments for each state based on their actual DSH expenditures for fiscal year 1995. In 1994, the State of Hawaii implemented the QUEST demonstration program that was designed to reduce the number of uninsured and improve access to health care. The prior Medicaid DSH program was incorporated into QUEST. As a result of the demonstration program, Hawaii did not have DSH expenditures in 1995 and was not provided a DSH allotment. 
   The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 made further changes to the DSH program, which included the establishment of a floor for DSH allotments. However, states without allotments were again left out. Other states that have obtained waivers similar to Hawaii's waiver have retained their DSH allotments. Only two states, Hawaii and Tennessee, do not have DSH allotments. 
   The conference report provides that states without DSH allotments could receive additional assistance if their waiver was terminated or removed. While this may possibly benefit Tennessee, this language will prevent Hawaii from obtaining any additional Medicaid DSH support that is included in this bill. The conference report includes an additional $6.35 billion in Medicaid DSH relief to the states. Hawaii does not receive any of these funds. Hawaii's hospitals are struggling to meet the healthcare needs of the uninsured. Hawaii cannot continue to be left out. Additional DSH payments would help Hawaii hospitals to meet the rising health care needs of our communities and reinforce our health care safety net. All fifty states need to have access to this additional Medicaid DSH support. I will continue to work to correct this inequity. 
   Mr. President, as I said at the start of my remarks, this legislation is a false promise. Even if this conference report is enacted, we will need to enact follow up legislation to address the flaws in the bill. We will also have to repeal several of the provisions that weaken the existing Medicare program. Many have said this is an important step forward in the Medicare program. I disagree. This conference report takes too many elderly Americans backwards in terms of their benefits to constitute forward progress or forward thinking. Many people, particularly seniors, will eventually come to the conclusion that I have reached on the legislation and Congress will regret this rush to judgment. After reviewing the provisions in this legislation, I am disappointed that this bill is a false promise that undermines the existing Medicare program. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to illuminate the merits of National Retirement Planning Week, which is currently underway. National Retirement Planning Week is organized by a coalition of financial industry and advocacy organizations to raise the awareness of the importance of retirement planning. I applaud the coalition for its efforts to increase public awareness of this critical topic. 
   The need to adequately prepare for retirement has significantly increased due to the growth in life expectancy and reduction in employer-provided retirement health benefits. In addition, increasing debt burdens confronting many families will make a comfortable retirement more difficult to achieve. 
   Americans are living longer. According to the U.S. National Center for Health Statistics, in 1950, an individual 65 years of age was expected to live an additional 13.9 years. This grew to 17.9 years by 2000. These additional years, many or most in retirement, will require Americans to have saved and invested additional financial resources to help meet their living expenses in retirement. Furthermore, the fastest growing segment of the population is made up of those 85 years and older, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
   While Americans have been living longer, employers have been reducing the health benefits provided to retirees. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation and Health Research and Education Trust, 38 percent of all large firms offer retirement benefits in 2003. This is a significant reduction from the 66 percent that offered retiree coverage in 1988. As employers continue to stop providing coverage and as health care costs continue to increase, proper planning is imperative for individuals to pay for healthcare expenses that may not be covered by Medicare. 
   In addition, another important component of preparing for retirement is to effectively manage and pay down debt. According to the Federal Reserve, consumer borrowing through auto loans, credit cards, and other debt increased by $15.1 billion in September, which brings the total consumer debt to $1.97 trillion. Substantial consumer debt will likely result in individuals having to work additional years beyond their preferred retirement age in order to pay off their credit cards and other consumer debts. 
   Obtaining home equity loans and refinancing mortgages to take cash out of homes may make it harder for working Americans to retire at the age and with quality of life they desire. Thirty-two percent of all mortgage refinancings in the third quarter of this year involved cash-outs of additional money beyond the existing loan balance, according to Freddie Mac. Although this is significantly lower than the record 93 percent in 1989, the additional debt brought on by these refinancings can significantly extend the time and cost of paying off a mortgage. 
   There is a greater need for larger nest eggs and better debt management. Unfortunately, defined benefit pension plans have become much less common and are not available for most working Americans to help meet these increasing costs. According to the Congressional Research Service, 72 percent of pension plan assets were held by defined benefit plans in 1975. Unfortunately, by 1998, this percentage fell to 48 percent. Changes in the contributions to pension plans and benefit payments between 1975 and 1998 also reflect the significant shift towards defined contribution retirement plans. Defined contribution plans require that employees be much more involved in their preparation for retirement. Employees must be aware of their alternatives in participating in their employer's plan. The matching contributions made by employers can provide employees with an immediate return on their investment. Employees must fully understand the importance of planning for retirement and the significance of participating in tax-advantaged employer plans and investment options that can be used, such as Individual Retirement Accounts, IRAs, to ensure that they will have sufficient resources for retirement. In addition, defined contribution plans require employees to manage their investments and make important asset allocation decisions. If employees do not have a sufficient level of financial literacy they will not be able to adequately manage their retirement portfolio. 
   Despite the need to ensure that employees have adequate resources for retirement, fewer employers are sponsoring plans and fewer employees are participating in employer-sponsored plans. According to a Congressional Research Service analysis of the Census Bureau's Current Population survey, the number of 25-to 64-year old, full-time employees in the private sector whose employer sponsored a retirement plan fell from 45.1 million in 2001 to 42.8 million in 2002. The survey also indicated that, among this population, participation in an employer sponsored retirement plan fell from 55.8 percent in 2001 to 53.5 percent in 2002. More employers must sponsor retirement plans and more employees need to participate in them. Working Americans will be in a better position to retire on their terms by starting to prepare for retirement early and utilizing investment vehicles that have preferential tax treatment such as 401(k) plans and Individual Retirement Accounts. A long-term time horizon allows investors to reap greater benefit from the compounding of their returns. 
   An important component of retirement security is financial and economic literacy, which should be at higher levels in our country. We must do more throughout the lives of individuals to ensure that they are financially and economically literate and can make informed financial decisions and participate effectively in the modern economy. Without a sufficient understanding of economics and personal finance, individuals will not be able to appropriately manage their finances, evaluate their credit opportunities, and successfully invest for their long-term financial goals.  
   Starting with our youth, it is necessary to fund the Excellence in Economic Education, EEE, Act, which provides resources for teacher training, evaluations, research, and other activities in K-12 education. There is no better time to instill in individuals the knowledge and skills that they need to make good decisions throughout their lives than during their years in elementary and secondary education. 
   I have also introduced S. 1800, the College LIFE, or Literacy in Finance and Economics Act, to address needs in this area for the college population. We must give students access to the tools that they need to make sound economic and financial decisions once they are on campus. Without an understanding of finance and economics, college students are not able to effectively evaluate credit alternatives, manage their debt, and prepare for long-term financial goals, such as saving for a home or retirement. I am working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to come up with a package based on S. 1800 that can be included in the Higher Education Act. 
   I also appreciate the work done by my colleague from New Jersey, Senator Corzine, in developing and introducing S. 386, the Education for Retirement Security Act of 2003. The legislation authorizes grants for financial education programs targeted towards mid-life and older Americans to increase financial and retirement knowledge and reduce their vulnerability to financial abuse and fraud. I am a cosponsor of this legislation which will help Americans prepare for retirement. 
   I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to improve economic and financial literacy. I also want to express my appreciation for the significant efforts made by Senators SARBANES, ENZI, CORZINE, ALLEN, STABENOW, and FITZGERALD to improve economic and financial literacy. Our efforts need to continue so that individuals will be able to make informed decisions and be able to pursue their long-term financial goals, particularly into their golden years of retirement. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to express a profound sense of disappointment. 
   The Nation needs an energy bill. We need a comprehensive blueprint for an energy policy that will take us in new directions, away from dependence on declining reserves of fossil fuel and foreign sources of oil. We need a policy which will reconcile growth and energy conservation in our transportation, manufacturing, utility, and consumer sectors across the nation. We need to bring down the high costs of electricity and gasoline for the country, particularly in my state of Hawaii, and pursue greater energy independence from petroleum products. The conference report does not make these goals achievable. 
   I believe a comprehensive energy bill is possible. As a senior member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, I am familiar with cutting-edge technologies and approaches to generating energy. I was closely involved in crafting the energy bill that we considered earlier this year under Senator DOMENICI's leadership. I also contributed heavily to the energy bill that passed the Senate under Democratic leadership last year. 
   I wish to thank the senior Senator from New Mexico for his persistence in drafting this energy bill under extremely difficult circumstances. The energy policies that we are addressing in this legislation cover a vast range of authorities and a patchwork of unruly regional alliances. This translates to an enormous challenge, and I appreciate Senator DOMENICI's hard work in the face of this intractable situation. I want to make it clear that I have not given up on the opportunity to have an energy bill and I will continue to work  with my colleagues to shape an energy bill for the continental United States as well as for Hawaii and Alaska, which often have special energy needs. 
   Unfortunately, the report that has emerged from the conference committee does not bear much resemblance to either of the two earlier bills, this year or last year, that had bipartisan support. I rise today to express my disappointment with the outcome of the conference report for several reasons. 
   I am particularly concerned about Title VIII, the hydrogen title. During the Committee's consideration of S. 14 earlier this year, the hydrogen title authorizing research and development, demonstration projects, and buy-back and fleet provisions was carefully worked out by a bipartisan group of Senators on the Committee. Even though my colleague from Iowa, Senator HARKIN, is not on the Committee, he contributed mightily. The hydrogen title was based on the Spark Matsunaga Hydrogen R&D Act, which has been the basic authority for federal hydrogen programs for the last 20 years. I introduced a bill to reauthorize the Matsunaga Act earlier this year, along with Senators DOMENICI, BINGAMAN, BAYH, LIEBERMAN, KYL, REID, and INOUYE. I continue to believe that the Matsunaga Act's basic focus on renewable R&D for the production of hydrogen is a critical component of a national hydrogen R&D program. I greatly appreciate the vision of Senator DOMENICI, who led the effort earlier this year to craft the hydrogen title in S. 14, along with myself and Senators BINGAMAN, DORGAN, ALEXANDER, WYDEN, SCHUMER, and HARKIN who dedicated time and energy to the bipartisan compromise. Title VIII was agreed to unanimously in the Committee in markup. 
   Title VIII, as it was crafted earlier this year, contained a robust authorization of hydrogen research, development, and demonstration projects to lead us into the hydrogen future. The title was later successfully amended on the floor during debate on S. 14, led by my good friend and colleague from North Dakota, Senator DORGAN. Senator DORGAN offered an amendment, which I cosponsored, to include important measurable goals and timelines for the commercial introduction of hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. 
   The federal government should be a leader in introducing hydrogen to the federal fleet of cars, trucks, and vans that are used to accomplish our government's business. Not many people realize it, but the federal government has a fleet of about half a million transportation units that, as a by-product of using fossil fuels, emit nitrogen oxides, ozone, and other pollutants. The original hydrogen title sought to usher in a transition to a fuel cell fleet. 
   The revised hydrogen title in the conference report eliminates key federal purchase requirements for vehicle fleets, stationary power, and hydrogen fueling infrastructure. It provides only the vaguest guidance to the Secretary of Energy of voluntary projects to shape demonstration programs. 
   Why are we going to spend $1.4 billion over six years on the production of hydrogen energy by way of a demonstration project using nuclear energy to produce hydrogen? We cannot decide what to do with our nuclear waste as it is now. Why are we going to produce waste by using nuclear material to produce hydrogen? We need to explore the production of hydrogen using renewable resources, and we need to spend a great deal more on it than this conference report provides. Hydrogen may fuel the economy of the future, but we must take action now to ensure that it comes from renewable sources for those parts of the country that will not or cannot host nuclear facilities. 
   The new hydrogen title, authorizes less funding through 2008 than we agreed on in the Senate earlier this year. It eliminates key demonstration programs and federal purchase requirements that I believe are critical to ensuring a hydrogen future. Mr. President, the hydrogen title is a pale ghost of what it was when it left the Senate on July 31st of this year. 
   This bill has some hopeful features. It provides tax incentives for wind, solar, and geothermal energy--but not enough. It encourages energy efficiency in household appliances and homebuilding. I am pleased that the report contains provisions that I specifically requested for energy studies in Hawaii and insular areas, and for non-contiguous areas to opt-in to the ethanol trading system. I thank Senator DOMENICI and Senator BINGAMAN for their assistance on these provisions, which take into account the unique energy situation faced by more remote states and territories. I also am pleased that Senator DOMENICI has included provisions of a bill I introduced earlier this year, S. 1045, to designate an office in the Department of Energy and a process within the Department for safely disposing of Greater-Than-Class C, GTCC, radioactive waste. According to a General Accounting Office study that I requested on this topic, we need a stronger plan for continued recovery and storage of GTCC waste until a permanent disposal facility is available. 
   The conference report has some objectionable features. It provides waivers for manufacturers of MTBE, thus leaving it to counties and cities to pay for the cleanup of groundwater contamination. There must be a better solution than that. We cannot leave the burden of cleaning up drinking water contaminated by gasoline additives to local communities. 
   The conference report also has objectional omissions. It does not include fuel economy standards which significantly increase the fuel efficiency of automobiles--a vital component of a comprehensive energy policy. The American people want to spend less money on gasoline, be less dependent on foreign supplies of oil, seriously address the issue of climate change, and breathe cleaner air. Strong fuel economy standards address these needs. The conference report fails to address the accumulation of greenhouse gases, which I have spoken about several times on the floor of the Senate. 
   Mr. President, I am disappointed in the conference report. It will not open the door for radically new energy futures such as hydrogen or even liquefied natural gas. It will not alleviate the high prices of energy in the Nation. And it will not reduce our dependency on foreign oil. 
   I yield back the remainder of my time. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the promotion of Major General Robert T. Clark to Lieutenant General in the United States Army, which is pending consideration by the Senate. On October 23, 2003, the Senate Committee on Armed Services voted to favorably report General Clark's promotion for consideration by the Senate. The vote taken was a voice vote. I asked, however, that the record reflect that had there been a recorded vote, I would have voted to oppose this promotion. 
   I have deep respect and admiration for our military leaders. I have often said that anyone who achieves the rank of a flag or general officer deserves a Ph.D. for the amount of education and training they have successfully completed to attain such distinguished rank. In my capacity as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the co-chair of the Senate Army Caucus, I have had the privilege of working with many of our Nation's most respected military leaders. 
   This has been a difficult decision for me. General Clark's promotion has been pending consideration before the Senate Armed Services Committee for 14 months. Military promotions are usually very simple to consider, and are rarely troublesome or controversial. I normally do not hear from my constituency about a military promotion. In this case, however, I was contacted by a number of my constituents asking me to oppose General Clark's promotion, primarily for his actions as Commanding General of the 101st Airborne Division at Fort Campbell, KY, during a difficult time when PFC Barry Winchell was murdered. For this reason, I made sure that I had the opportunity to review as much material as possible pertaining to General Clark's career as well as the facts surrounding the incident that led to Private First Class Winchell's death. 
   In March 2003, I joined some of my colleagues in writing a letter to the distinguished chairman and ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee to request information regarding the specific actions General Clark took to eliminate the climate of anti-gay harassment that existed at Fort Campbell prior to Private First Class Winchell's death; statements General Clark made regarding antigay harassment to officers, soldiers, and the public; the policies he promulgated addressing this issue; other steps he took to prevent further acts of violence and harassment; how he handled the Winchell case in comparison to other serious crimes occurring during his command; and his response, as well as the response of those around him, to requests by Private First Class Winchell's family to meet with him. I reviewed the information provided and participated in an executive session held on October 23, 2003, where General Clark was available for questions. 
   After reviewing all of the information and listening to General Clark's testimony, I decided that I could not support his promotion to Lieutenant General. General Clark's professional record reflects many distinguished accomplishments as a military officer. However, I remain concerned about his lack of what I believe to be leadership qualities that are necessary for today's military leaders. 
   I remain disturbed by General Clark's continued reliance on lack of knowledge regarding misconduct and antigay harassment on post as a rationale for his lack of action. General Clark had been in command of the 101st Airborne Division for 17 months prior to Private First Class Winchell's death. While I understand a commanding general is not responsible for the individual actions of his soldiers, I firmly believe that a commanding general sets the tone on an installation and can influence what his soldiers believe will be considered ``acceptable'' behavior. I was disturbed to learn of repeated instances of underage drinking and harassment, and of the assessment, particularly of those soldiers in Private First Class Winchell's unit, of the command climate prior to Private First Class Winchell's death. 
   I am also disturbed by General Clark's refusal to take responsibility for the incident. During his tenure as Chief of Staff of the Army, General Eric Shinseki took responsibility for what happened to Private First Class Winchell. This reflects official Army policy that commanders at all levels are accountable for everything their command does or fails to do. As a leader, I believe General Clark should have taken responsibility or expressed accountability for the circumstances that led to this Private First Class Winchell's death. 
   I believe his failure to initiate a meeting with Private First Class Winchell's family reflects poor leadership on his part. His position as convening authority did not prevent him from meeting with the parents of a soldier murdered on an installation over which he had command and responsibility. 
   Again, General Clark's record reflects that he has led a distinguished military career. However, I do not believe his actions as the Commanding General of the 101st Airborne Division at Fort Campbell, KY, warrant his promotion to lieutenant general. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I have spent the past 23 hours listening to the debate which was billed as a debate on judicial nominations and has turned into a semantics fest over who is responsible for the delayed enactment of legislation important to both sides of the aisle. One thing is clear to me, this is not getting us any closer to enacting the legislation we have identified as important. 
   We are devoting 30 hours to debate the fact that the Senate has passed only 98 percent of President Bush's nominees, not 100 percent. I take my responsibilities as a United States Senator very seriously. My understanding is that I am to provide the President with my advice and consent regarding the individuals he nominates for a lifetime position to the Federal judiciary. It troubles me that we are spending 30 hours to discuss the fact that we have not acted on 2 percent of the President's nominees to the Federal judiciary. 
   We are talking about 4 individuals, 4 individuals who have jobs, while 3 million people have lost jobs since President Bush took office. We should be talking about jobs. We should be debating and voting on legislation to increase the minimum wage. We should be finishing our appropriations bills. We should be talking about ways to strengthen our manufacturing base. We should be discussing extended unemployment benefits for the long-term unemployed, the 3 million Americans who have lost their jobs during the Bush presidency. 
   If we want to start talking about legislation that is important to us as individual Senators, we could be talking about Federal recognition for Hawaii's indigenous peoples, Native Hawaiians, an issue of extreme importance to my constituents in Hawaii. We could be talking about ending mutual fund abuses for investors or promoting financial literacy for our students. We could be talking about how to fund the promises we extended when we passed the No Child Left Behind Act which has been severely underfunded since its enactment. 
   Instead, we have spent 23 hours talking about 4 judicial nominations, 4 nominations out of 172, which have not been approved by this body. We have spent the past day blaming each other for the lack of progress on the issues that we have identified as priorities. It is sad that we have come to this point. During my tenure in the Senate, we have been able to work in a bipartisan manner to achieve our goals. 
   I take particular offense, to the claims that have been made about Democratic Senators being anti-woman, anti-Catholic, anti-Hispanic, and anti-African-American, merely because we refuse to approve 4 of the President's judicial nominees. Since when do we cast aspersions simply because we are unable to get our own way? As a former principal and teacher, this is not behavior that I would condone in the classroom, much less on the floor of the Senate. 
   My colleagues from the other side of the aisle argue that this is the first time a filibuster has been used for a judicial nominee. Republicans have openly filibustered 6 judicial nominees on the floor of the Senate, 5 of which were circuit court nominees. 
   There seems to be a theme that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have not engaged in efforts to block a judicial nomination. I want to share with my colleagues a situation I encountered during the 104th and 105th Congress. An individual from Hawaii was nominated to serve on the U.S. District Court, District of Hawaii. This was a nominee strongly supported by both Senators from Hawaii. This nominee had a hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee and was reported favorably. However, this is where the process stopped for a period of two-and-a-half years. 
   A colleague from another state placed a hold on this nominee for over 30 months before allowing us to confirm this nomination. In effect, a Senator from a State thousands of miles from Hawaii blocked a district court nominee that the senior Senator from Hawaii and I supported. This colleague is now the attorney general of the United States, and happens to be a good friend of mine. I found this situation to be so unusual, that a colleague from another state would place a hold on a district court nominee from my State when both Hawaii Senators strongly supported the nomination. I also find it highly ironic that the person who placed that hold is now in a position of great importance in this administration. I raise this issue to dispute the notion that this is the first time a nomination has been blocked, after the Senate Judiciary Committee favorably reported the nomination to the Senate for consideration. 
   I could also speak about the nomination of Justice James Duffy to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. A fine nominee, described by his peers as the ``best of the best,'' he had strong support from Senator Inouye and me to fill Hawaii's slot on the Ninth Circuit. Yet, Justice  Duffy never received a hearing in the Senate. Seven hundred and ninety-one days without a hearing. Justice Duffy is one of the well-qualified and talented men and women nominated during the Clinton administration, individuals with bipartisan and home-State support, whose nominations were never acted on by the Senate. In back of me are pictures of those, and Mr. Duffy's picture is on the chart. 
   The last person I will mention is Richard Clifton, who is now serving on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit. Richard Clifton was nominated after President Bush withdrew Justice Duffy's nomination. Richard Clifton served as the Hawaii State Republican party counsel. While I don't necessarily agree with all of his views, I supported his nomination, and he was confirmed within a year of his nomination. 
   Ninety-five percent of Federal judicial seats are now filled, creating the lowest vacancy rate in 13 years. So let's get back to the things we should be talking about--jobs, education, Medicare, minimum wage, unemployment insurance, and helping the poor. 
   We are squandering valuable time that the Senate could and should be using to address matters of great importance to thousands of Americans. I am honored to cosponsor legislation offered by the senior Senator from Massachusetts, Mr. KENNEDY, to raise the minimum wage. He has spoken with tremendous passion of the urgent need for an increase in the minimum wage. 
   I remind my colleagues that since establishing the minimum wage requirement in 1938, we have had only 19 increases in the minimum wage, the latest occurring in September 1997. The minimum wage would need to reach $8.38 an hour to equal the purchasing power of the statutory minimum wage in 1968. A full-time worker paid the minimum wage earns about $4,000 below the poverty line for a family of three. This is not right. 
   We should not only be raising the minimum wage so that employees working full time are not struggling to stay above the poverty line. We should also extend the Temporary Extended Unemployment Compensation program. This program, which was enacted on March 9, 2002, provided up to 13 weeks of federally-funded benefits for unemployed workers in all states who exhausted their regular unemployment compensation benefits. In addition, up to an additional 13 weeks for certain high unemployment states that have an insured unemployed rate of 4 percent or higher. The program has been extended several times, with the latest extension enacted into law on May 28, 2003. While this program will be phased-out through March 31, 2004, the program actually ends on December 31, 2003. Although employment has risen, the national unemployment rate has remained unchanged at 6 percent. In October 2003, the Department of Labor has indicated that 2 million unemployed persons were looking for work for 27 weeks or longer. This is greater than the 13 weeks of regular unemployment and greater than the additional extended unemployment benefits. We should be doing more not just for our men and women who are fighting our war on terrorism, but for those who are fighting the war on poverty. 
   My time is almost up, so I will end here. In a Senate where the divide between the majority and minority is held by a mere vote, and that division reflects the viewpoint of the American body politic at-large, it is imperative that we work together to resolve so many of the issues that are important to our constituents. When it comes to judicial nominations, the confirmation rate of 98 percent clearly shows that we, in the minority, are doing what we can to work with the majority in upholding our constitutional obligation to provide advice and consent to the President on judicial nominations. I can only hope we achieve a 98 percent rate in enacting the laws addressing funding for education, healthcare reform, Medicare reform, increasing the minimum wage, extending unemployment insurance, and providing Americans with the financial tools to be successful. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am pleased to be an original cosponsor for the National Beverage Producer Responsibility Act of 2003, a bill introduced today by Senator JIM JEFFORDS. This bill serves a need that we already have seen in Hawaii--to reduce litter and increase recycling by encouraging businesses to work together in a partnership with government to reclaim glass, plastic bottles, and cans that accumulate on our shores, in our landfills, and along our streets. 
   The bill sets up a deposit charge that can be reclaimed when the beverage container is returned. The legislation sets a measurable performance standard of 80 percent recovery rate for used, empty beverage containers for recycling or reuse. The bill was crafted to address the concerns of industry, retain the authority of individual States, and promote a healthy environment. It empowers the beverage container industry to design a container recycling program that best fits its business requirements to meet the 80 percent goal. States like Hawaii and 10 other States across the Nation that already have bottle bills will be able to continue their programs as long as the programs meet the national performance standard. It aims to protect and preserve our Nation's natural resources and reduce costs to counties, cities, and residents. In my own State, Hawaii recently enacted a beverage container bill which will take effect in 2005. 
   As our Nation prepares to celebrate America Recycles Day on Saturday, November 15, I am optimistic that the National Beverage Producer Responsibility Act of 2003 will help keep our parks, beaches, and roadsides cleaner; reduce burdens on landfills; decrease ground water contamination; save energy; lower taxes for disposal costs; and create new industries and jobs. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I pay tribute to the 26.4 million military veterans and their families living in the United States who have served in defense of our great Nation. In 1918, on the 11th hour of the 11th day in the 11th month, the world rejoiced and celebrated. After four years of bitter war, an armistice was signed. The ``war to end all wars'' was over. How unprophetic were these sincere but hopeful words. 
   The turn of events has since made us realize more than ever that ``Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,'' and Armistice Day has turned into Veterans Day to honor all our brave men and women who served since that hope-filled day in many countries to defend liberty and freedom. 
   America today, and this imperfect world, is a better place because of the sacrifices made by our veterans and their families, many of whom paid the ultimate price, for ``The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.'' When duty called, our veterans responded magnificently. 
   As we engage in Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Noble Eagle, and countless other missions around the world, it is important that we support our men and women in the military by providing them with the training, equipment, and resources necessary for them to accomplish their mission so that they can return to their families in a timely manner. We must also honor their families who also sacrifice precious time with them so that they can defend our freedom. 
   At the same time, we must never forget the contributions and sacrifices made by those veterans who served in past conflicts, and their families. We must work to ensure that our veterans are provided with appropriate services and benefits, such as adequate health care, in a timely fashion. We currently face a $1.8 billion shortfall in funding needed to provide healthcare for our veterans. I remain committed to ensuring that our veterans are provided with the services and benefits that they have earned. 
   I am honored to pay tribute to these fine individuals on behalf of a grateful Nation. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I fully support our men and women who have served and are currently serving in our Armed Forces. As the ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support, I have worked with my colleagues to ensure that our military members are provided with appropriate resources and equipment to successfully accomplish their mission. I wish to state my appreciation for being a member of this committee, and to thank the Senator from Virginia for his leadership. I commend the Senator from Michigan for his guidance and leadership as well, and I also wish to thank my subcommittee chairman, the Senator from Nevada, Mr. Ensign, for working with me on readiness issues. 
   I also commend the committee members of both sides of the aisle, and also subcommittee members, for a job well done. 
   I am delighted to work with the Senator from Maine, Ms. Collins, chair of the Governmental Affairs Committee, as we deal with some of these issues. 
   I rise today, however, to express my disappointment with the outcome of the conference report on several issues. I am particularly concerned with the DOD civilian personnel system. We worked on this issue very hard in the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs and came up with a bipartisan approach that the committee endorsed with a 10-to-1 vote. Our approach would have provided DOD important new flexibility to manage its workforce, but it would have done so in a manner that preserved important safeguards for DOD employees.  
   This balanced approach was supported by a substantial majority of the Senate conferees. Unfortunately, we understand that there was stiff opposition from the House conferees and the administration, which insisted that the Secretary of Defense be given unilateral authority to decide what protections, if any, would be available to Federal employees. We were able to win some significant concessions. 
   The conference report includes Senate provisions that would preserve the right of individual employees to appeal adverse personnel actions to the Merit Systems Protection Board and the courts; direct DOD to maintain current funding levels for civilian pay; provide specific guidance on the implementation of a pay-banding system; and require DOD to work with the Office of Personnel Management on the implementation of the new system. 
   With these protections built in, I would like to be in a position to support the civilian personnel provision. Unfortunately, I cannot, because of the outcome on the issue of collective bargaining. 
   Unlike the Homeland Security Act, this conference report would not authorize the Secretary of Defense to waive Chapter 71 of title 5, which governs collective bargaining. These provisions remain in full force and effect for DOD. However, the conference report does authorize the Secretary of Defense to establish ``a labor relations system for the Department of Defense to address the unique role that the Department's civilian workforce plays in supporting the Department's national security mission.'' 
   In general, the new labor relations system established by the Department must be consistent with Chapter 71, since Chapter 71 remains in effect. In a few areas, however, the conference report would specifically override Chapter 71. For example, the conference report states that the new labor relations system ``shall provide for independent third party review of decisions, including defining what decisions are reviewable by the third party, what third party would conduct the review, and the standard or standards for review.'' 
   By giving the Secretary of Defense the authority to decide who reviews disputes, the issues to be reviewed, and the standard of review, this bill appears to hand one party the final say on all labor and management issues. This language is inconsistent with the concept of good faith bargaining between equals. 
   At the same time the administration has asked us to establish a new National Security Personnel System, it continues to pursue an aggressive outsourcing agenda and to strongly resist cost of living increases for Federal civilian employees. I am deeply concerned that the administration's agenda of taking away employee's rights, giving away their jobs, and cutting their pay could have a real demoralizing effect on the DOD workforce that has done so much for our national security for so long. 
   I am also disappointed by the outcome of the conference on environmental issues. In the past, our committee has worked on a bipartisan basis to ensure that DOD behaves in an environmentally responsible manner, without being unduly hampered by environmental requirements when it conducts essential military activities. This year, the administration worked with the majority in both Houses to force through a series of provisions exempting the Department from basic environmental laws. 
   In particular, this conference report would amend the Endangered Species Act to exempt defense lands from critical habitat designations without establishing appropriate environmental safeguards, as the Senate bill would have done. It would authorize DOD to conduct activities that have a significant potential to harm large numbers of marine mammals without even applying for a permit and having the appropriate regulatory agencies review the proposed activities. It would exempt Fort Huachuca in Arizona from the requirement for cumulative impact analyses under the Endangered Species Act. And it includes language, which is not in either bill and not in the jurisdiction of our Committee, that would direct the Army Corps of Engineers to issue new rules making it easier for private citizens to avoid their obligation to preserve wetlands. 
   The military service chiefs have testified before our committee that our armed forces are more ready today than they have ever been before. That is because the military services have gone the extra mile to find constructive ways to comply with applicable laws and regulations with a minimum impact on training and readiness. It takes hard work with regulators and impacted communities on a case-by-case basis to achieve these solutions, but the payoff comes in the credibility the department has earned as a good neighbor and a faithful custodian of the public lands. 
   I am concerned that the exemptions included in this bill could begin to undermine the trust and cooperation on environmental issues that we have worked so hard to build between the military and civilian communities over the years. 
   Finally, this bill includes deep cuts to essential military operations and maintenance accounts that I believe are misguided. During the committee's markup and floor consideration, I voiced my concern that the proposed reductions in the military services' working capital funds were so drastic that they may harm military readiness. 
   The working capital funds are a complicated but crucial financial tool the military services use to ensure adequate supplies of spare parts, both now and in the future. Deep cuts to those accounts cause fluctuations in prices that units do not have the funds to pay for, which puts readiness in jeopardy and is a disservice to the men and women that serve. I am pleased that this bill represents a slight improvement from the large reductions taken in the Senate bill, but remain concerned about the almost $1 billion the conference report takes out of working capital fund accounts. 
   I was also disappointed by the $150 million reduction in base operating support taken from the Air Force; these funds are critical to the upkeep and maintenance of Air Force bases. Without them, basic repairs will be foregone and service members' quality of work and life will suffer. This is not the right message to send to our air men and women as they continue to make huge sacrifices for our Nation. 
   I am pleased by the military construction provisions that we were able to include in the conference report. In support of our defense infrastructure as well as the quality of life for our service men and women, this year's bill includes $9.7 billion for military construction in the U.S. and overseas, $5.7 billion will fund mission-critical projects which support important activities such as training, deployment, and ongoing operations. An additional $1 billion will fund family housing projects which will directly impact the quality of life for our servicemen and women and their families. 
   Although this year's bill funds many essential construction projects worldwide, it also makes significant cuts to numerous overseas projects requested by the Department, specifically in Germany and Korea. Final decisions have not yet been made regarding our overseas presence, and the reductions in this bill potentially send the wrong message to our U.S. forces fighting overseas. 
   We ensure that we continue to support our men and women overseas to accomplish their missions and that we offer them the quality of life they deserve. 
   Again, I strongly support the men and women who serve in our Armed Forces. I also support the 750,000 Federal employees who play a crucial role in ensuring that our Armed Forces have the equipment, training, and resources they need to accomplish their mission. I believe it is imperative that DOD work closely with communities surrounding military installations and training ranges to achieve a positive working relationship based on mutual trust, understanding, and respect. For these reasons, I am greatly disappointed with the outcome of the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2004. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to offer an amendment to H.R. 2673, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2004, that will help protect the health of the American public. This amendment would prohibit the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) from utilizing funds under this Act to approve downed animals for human consumption. I thank Senators LEVIN, CANTWELL, and LIEBERMAN for cosponsoring this amendment. 
   Downed animals are livestock such as cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, mules, or other equines that are too sick to stand or walk unassisted. Many of these animals are dying from infectious diseases and present a significant pathway for the spread of disease. 
   I commend USDA and livestock organizations for their efforts to address the issue of downed animals. However, I am deeply concerned about diseases such as BSE, Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, more commonly known as mad cow disease, that pose a serious risk to the United States cattle industry and human health. A food inspection study conducted in Germany in 2001 found that BSE is present in a higher percentage of downed livestock than in the general cattle population. USDA stated that downed animals are one of the most significant potential pathways that have not been addressed in previous efforts to reduce risks from BSE. Stronger legislation is needed to ensure that these animals do not enter our food chain. My amendment prevents downed animals from being approved for consumption at our dinner tables. 
   On January 21st of this year, USDA's Animal and Plant Health Inspection  Service (APHIS) proposed rules in the Federal Register asking for comments on reducing the risks of BSE from downed and dead livestock. In the proposed rules, USDA acknowledges that downed animals serve as a potential pathway for the spread of BSE. Currently, before slaughter, USDA's Food Safety Inspection Service (FSIS) diverts downer livestock that exhibit clinical signs associated with BSE or other types of diseases until further tests may be taken. However, this does not mean that downed livestock cannot be processed for human consumption. If downer cattle presented for slaughter pass both the pre- and post-inspection process, meat and meat by-products from such cattle can be used for human consumption. Routinely, BSE is not correctly distinguished from many other diseases and conditions that show similar symptoms. This was demonstrated by the surveillance of a similar inspection process in Europe, showing that the process is inadequate for detecting BSE. Consequently, BSE-infected cattle can be approved for human and animal consumption. 
   Although USDA increased the number of cattle tested for BSE from 5,200 during the year 2001 to 19,990 in the year 2002, this still represents less than one percent of the industry that is tested. Of the 5,200 cattle tested for BSE in fiscal year 2001, approximately 87 percent of the animals targeted for testing were downed. Today, USDA has increased its efforts to test approximately 10 percent of downed cattle per year for BSE. It is interesting to note, however, that Japan currently tests each of its 1.3 million beef cattle slaughtered annually for BSE. While I am not asking the industry and Federal Government to test every slaughtered cow, I am asking the Federal Government to address and reduce the real risks associated with BSE and similar diseases in the U.S. 
   Some individuals fear that my amendment would place an excessive financial burden on the livestock industry. I want to remind my colleagues that one single downed cow in Canada diagnosed with BSE this year shut down the world's third largest beef exporter. It is estimated that the Canadian beef industry lost over $1 billion as a result of the discovery of BSE and more than 30 countries banned Canadian cattle and beef. As the Canadian cattle industry continues to recover from its economic loss, it is prudent for the United States to be proactive in preventing BSE and other animal diseases from entering our food chain. 
   We must protect our livestock industry and human health from diseases such as BSE. My amendment reduces the threat of passing diseases from downed livestock to our food supply. USDA only tests a small sample of downed animals for diseases. This is not enough. My amendment ensures downed animals will not be used for human consumption. It also requires higher standards for food safety and protects human health from diseases and the livestock industry from economic distress. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this important amendment. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation intended to restore public trust in mutual funds, the Mutual Fund Transparency Act of 2003. I thank Senator FITZGERALD and Senator LIEBERMAN for cosponsoring my bill. I greatly appreciate the efforts of Senator FITZGERALD to address this issue. Our Financial Management, Budget, and International Security Subcommittee held a very thorough hearing on mutual fund trading abuses on Monday. I applaud the efforts of Representative RICHARD BAKER for his leadership and his efforts to improve mutual fund governance. I also commend the efforts of New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer and the Secretary of Massachusetts William Galvin for their efforts to pursue individuals that have harmed mutual fund investors. 
   Mr. President, 95 million people have placed a significant portion of their future financial security into mutual funds. Mutual funds provide middle-income Americans, blue and white collar workers and their families, with an investment vehicle that offers diversification and professional money management. Mutual funds are what average investors rely on for retirement, savings for children's college education, or other financial goals and dreams. 
   My legislation will bring about structural reform of mutual fund governance and increase disclosures in order to provide useful and relevant information to mutual fund investors. I ask unanimous consent that a letter of support for my bill from the Consumer Federation of America, Fund Democracy, Consumer Action, U.S. Public Interest Research Group, and Consumers Union be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, recent revelations of widespread market-timing and late-trading abuses demonstrate the failures of mutual fund boards of directors to fulfill their fiduciary obligations to shareholders. The activities of Canary Capital Partners and Putnam Investments are two deeply troubling examples. However, it is likely that the trading abuses are much more routine. At our hearing, Mr. Stephen Cutler, Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, testified that preliminary results of an SEC survey show that about ``50 percent of responding fund groups appear to have one or more arrangements with certain shareholders that allow these shareholders to engage in market timing.'' This statistic is just one example of mutual funds having different sets of rules for large and small investors. These differing rules allow the larger investors to profit at the expense of average, ordinary investors who are working toward their long-term financial goals. 
   The abuses that have been brought to our attention make it clear that the boards of mutual fund companies are not providing sufficient oversight. To be more effective, the boards must be strengthened and more independent. Investment company boards should be required to have an independent chairman, and independent directors must have a dominant presence on the board. My bill strengthens the definition of who is considered to be an independent director. It also requires that mutual fund company boards have 75 percent of their members considered to be independent. To be considered independent, shareholders would have to approve them. My legislation also prohibits the board from making decisions that require a vote of a non-independent director. In addition, a committee of independent members would be responsible for nominating members and adopting qualification standards for board membership. These steps are necessary to add much needed protections to strengthen the ability of mutual fund boards to detect and prevent abuses of the trust of shareholders. 
   In addition, this bill requires the SEC to develop rules to disclose the compensation of individuals employed by the investment advisor of the company to manage the portfolio of the company and their ownership interest in the company. Consumers deserve to know relevant information about the portfolio manager's incentives and whether they are properly aligned with those of their shareholders. Again, I am referring to ordinary American families patiently working toward their long-term financial goals.  
   The strengthening of boards to protect shareholders is only one important 
   aspect of my bill. My bill will also increase the transparency of often complex financial relationships between brokers and mutual funds in ways that are meaningful and easy to understand for investors. 
   Shelf-space payments and revenue-sharing agreements between mutual fund companies and brokers present conflicts of interest that must be addressed. Brokers also compile preferred lists which highlight certain funds, which typically generate more investment than those left off the list. It is not clear to investors that the mutual fund company also may pay a percentage of sales and/or an annual fee on the fund assets held by the broker to obtain a place on the preferred list or to have their shares sold by the broker. 
   Shelf-space and revenue sharing agreements present risk to investors. Brokers have conflicts of interest, some of which are unavoidable, but these need to be disclosed to investors. Without such disclosure, investors cannot make informed financial decisions. Investors may believe that brokers are recommending funds based on the expectation for solid returns or low volatility, but the broker's recommendation may be influenced by hidden payments. 
   The SEC has exempted mutual funds from Rule 10b-10, which requires that confirmation notices of securities transactions be sent to customers to indicate how the broker was compensated in the trade. Mutual funds should be subject to this confirmation notice requirement. My legislation will require brokers to disclose in writing, to those who purchase mutual fund company shares, the amount of compensation the broker will receive due to the transaction, instead of simply providing a prospectus. The prospectus fails to include the detailed relevant information that investors need to make informed decisions. Mutual fund investors deserve to know how their broker is being paid. 
   My bill also will inject a measure of reality into the expenses of mutual funds. In order to increase the transparency of the actual costs of the fund, brokerage commissions must be counted as an expense in filings with the SEC and included in the calculation of the expense ratio, so that investors will have a more realistic view of the expenses of their fund. Consumers often compare the expense ratios of funds when making investment decisions. However, the expense ratios fail to take into account the costs of commissions in the purchase and sale of securities. Therefore, investors are not provided with an accurate idea of the expenses involved. Currently, brokerage commissions have to be disclosed to the SEC, but not to individual investors. Brokerage commissions are only disclosed to the investor upon request. My bill puts teeth into brokerage commission disclosure provisions and ensures that commissions will be included in a document that investors actually have access to and utilize. 
   This bill also creates a powerful incentive to reduce the use of soft dollars. Soft dollars refer to the bundling of services or products into commissions. Mutual fund companies often pay higher commissions in order to obtain other products and services, typically research on stocks. Soft dollars can be used to lower their expenses by having services and products paid for by soft dollars. Purchases using soft dollars do not count as expenses and are not calculated into the expense ratio. The SEC released a study in September 1998 concluding that soft dollars were used to pay for research, salaries, office rent, telephone services, legal expenses, and entertainment, among other expenses. 
   At the hearing, Secretary Galvin called for a prohibition of soft dollars. This is a recommendation that needs to be examined. However, my bill provides an immediate alternative, which is to provide an incentive for funds to limit their use of soft dollars by calculating them as expenses. 
   If commissions are disclosed in this manner, the use of soft dollars will be reflected in the higher commission fees and overall expenses. This will make it easier for investors to see the true cost of the fund and compare the expense ratios of funds. 
   Some may argue that this gives an incomplete picture and fails to account for spreads, market impact, and opportunity costs. However, the SEC has the authority to address the issue further if it can determine an effective way to quantify these additional factors. This bill does not impose an additional reporting requirement that would be burdensome to brokers. It merely uses what is already reported and presents this information in a manner meaningful to investors. 
   My legislation also directs the SEC to conduct a study to assess financial literacy among mutual fund investors. The SEC will identify the most useful and relevant information that investors need prior to purchasing shares, methods to increase the transparency of expenses and potential conflicts of interest in mutual fund transactions, and a strategy to increase the financial literacy of investors that results in positive change in investor behavior. None of our disclosure provisions will truly work unless investors are effectively given the tools they need to make smart investment decisions. 
   Finally, my bill requires the General Accounting Office, GAO, to study the current marketing practices for the sale of shares of mutual funds. GAO will provide recommendations to improve investor protections in mutual fund advertising to ensure that investors are able make informed financial decisions when purchasing shares. 
   Public confidence in mutual funds will not recover if funds continue to employ different sets of rules for large and small investors, engage in ethical misconduct, and enrich themselves at the expense of shareholders. The transgressions brought to light underscore the absence of effective oversight by the boards of mutual funds companies. This legislation will strengthen board independence and enhance the transparency of financial relationships. The American investing public deserves nothing less. 
   Mr. President, I look forward to working with my colleagues in enacting meaningful reform of the troubled mutual fund industry. We must act to restore trust in this critical investment vehicle that people rely on for their financial future and goals. I ask unanimous consent that the text of the Mutual Fund Transparency Act of 2003 be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to speak about an amendment that I have filed, but will not call up today in the interest of moving this legislation forward, with regard to Title V of S. 1753, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, FCRA, bill. I would like to thank my colleagues, Senators SARBANES, ENZI, STABENOW, and CORZINE, for their diligent work on Title V to establish a Financial Literacy and Education Commission. This commission will help tremendously toward coordinating the myriad efforts of Federal agencies to increase financial literacy in this country and creating a comprehensive national strategy as an important blueprint to follow. 
   As a part of this effort, I believe its important to emphasize the need for public awareness about the importance of financial and economic literacy. My amendment is similar to a bill introduced in the other body by the gentleman from California, Representative DAVID DREIER, and cosponsored by several colleagues on both sides of the aisle, that would establish a pilot national public service multimedia campaign to enhance the state of financial literacy in this country. It would authorize $3 million over 3 years for this purpose. 
   My amendment differs in that it coordinates this public service multimedia campaign with the Federal Commission created by S. 1753 and the national strategy that would be produced by the commission. It would authorize the commission to work in collaboration with an entity accomplished in public service campaigns that has secured private sector funds to supplement federal funding and community organizations well-qualified by virtue of their experience in the field of financial literacy and education. My amendment also requires that performance measures be developed to measure the effectiveness of such a public service multimedia campaign, via positive changes in behavior with respect to personal finance. It is paramount to be able to assess the effectiveness of the campaign and other financial literacy efforts so that we understand what works and does not work, and can replicate our successes into the future. 
   I will continue to work with my colleagues on the Banking Committee and their counterparts in the other body to include the language in my amendment in FCRA legislation during their negotiations following Senate passage of S. 1753. It is important that we continue our coordinated efforts to ensure that Americans are financially literate, which will encourage better decisionmaking by individuals, stronger families, better-functioning markets, and a more secure future for our Nation. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to express my strong support for our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines who are deployed around the world in defense of the principles of democracy and our great Nation. Today the Senate will pass the conference report to H.R. 3289, the FY04 Supplemental Appropriations Act for Iraq, Afghanistan and the global war on terrorism. 
   The conference report does not include a key provision adopted by the Senate which would have required $10 billion in Iraq reconstruction funds to be used as a loan rather than as a grant unless 90 percent of foreign creditors cancel Iraqi debt. I voted for this provision because I believed that it would have helped to provide Iraqis with meaningful participation in the reconstruction of their country by making them responsible for the funding. I am disappointed that the provision has been eliminated, but I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to address the issue of how to appropriately respond to continued requests for Federal dollars to reconstruct Iraq. 
   Last year, as the Senate debated authorization of the use of force in Iraq, one of my concerns was our planning of, and responsibility for, the reconstruction of Iraq. Before we even engaged in this conflict, I asked administration officials about post-war Iraq plans. I was repeatedly told that the appropriate officials were working hard to develop such plans and that details were not necessary because there were too many unpredictable factors to consider. Well, here we are, 4 months after President George W. Bush declared major combat in Iraq to be over. We are being told that our troops will be in Iraq for an extended period of time. American soldiers continue to be wounded and killed almost every day. We are faced with open-ended requests for billions of dollars to reconstruct Iraq. 
   There seems to be reluctance on the part of our international colleagues to  contribute and participate in the rebuilding of Iraq due to U.S. control and authority over the reconstruction funds and plans. It is imperative that we recruit other countries to assist us in peacekeeping activities to relieve our military members so that they can return home. It is just as imperative that we allow other countries to contribute to the reconstruction effort to relieve the American taxpayer of what has been and will continue to be a monumental expenditure of Federal funds in Iraq. The United States must be willing to take the necessary actions to make such international cooperation a reality. 
   During the Senate's consideration of President Bush's FY04 supplemental request, I voted in support of S. 1689 because I believed the Senate was successful in adding provisions to the legislation to support our deployed troops; increase accountability and transparency in post-war Iraq contracts; improve planning for post-war Iraq; and reduce the burden on the American Taxpayer of the costs stemming from Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Noble Eagle and the global war on terrorism on the American taxpayer. While I am pleased to learn that the conference report retains provisions to support our troops such as the one-year demonstration program for enhanced TRICARE eligibility for certain National Guardsmen and Reservists, the retroactive reimbursement for soldiers who paid for their food while being medically treated, and the continued authorization for Imminent Danger Pay and Family Separation Pay at increased rates for FY04, I am concerned that the provisions adopted by 
   the Senate which were eliminated will make it more difficult for us to ensure appropriate oversight, accountability, and success in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the global war on terror. 
   I am particularly disappointed by the conference committee's decision to eliminate the provision proposed by Senator JACK REED to increase Army end-strength by 10,000. I remain increasingly concerned about the strain of the increased OPTEMPO on the Army. I firmly believe we need to increase end-strength and look forward to working with my colleagues and the Army to address this matter. I understand that General Schoomaker has directed a study of this issue and I look forward to the results of this study. 
   Again, I fully support our men and women in the military. For that reason, I fully support the $51.4 billion for ongoing military operations in Iraq, $10.5 billion for U.S. forces in Afghanistan, and $3.6 billion for homeland defense. I will work diligently with my colleagues to ensure that our Armed Forces are provided with the training and equipment necessary for them to accomplish their mission so that they can return home safely to their families in a timely manner. 
   I support the $5 billion for security training for Iraqi security forces. I remain concerned, however, with the amount of funding that has been designated for reconstruction of Iraq, particularly since we have been assured that this supplemental only represents the most pressing reconstruction needs for the next 12 months and does not cover all reconstruction needs. At the same time, we have pressing domestic needs including the need to fund an additional $1.3 billion for medical care for veterans. We have a number of educational and social programs that are in definite need of increased funding. We must be responsible stewards of taxpayers' money. 
   I voted in opposition to authorizing the use of military force against Iraq in October 2002. I voted this way because I believed we had not yet utilized all of our options at the international level. However, once the decision to utilize military force was made, I fully supported the men and women who were deployed in this effort. We are now responsible to ensure that they have the equipment and resources to undertake their mission in the safest manner possible. Our leadership of the coalition forces in Operation Iraqi Freedom also makes the United States accountable for the restoration and reconstruction of Iraq. Again, I believe we must work closely with our allies and neighbors in the international community for us to successfully bring out troops back home. I look forward to working with my colleagues to find a way to accomplish such a difficult challenge. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I am introducing the College Literacy in Finance and Economics or College LIFE Act. I would like to thank my colleagues, Senators SARBANES and CORZINE, for their cosponsorship of this important legislation. 
   The problem we're working to address with the College LIFE Act is simple. Our college students are many of America's best and the brightest. They hold the promise of our country in their hands and will go on to become leaders--in business, education, politics, the military, the community--any field you can name. It is wonderful that so many people are pursuing and fulfilling their dreams of higher education in numbers that I did not imagine when I was in college. In fact, as reported by the American Council on Education, total college enrollment surged by 3 million or nearly 27 percent over the past 20 years. However, I am gravely concerned, both as a member of this body and particularly as a grandparent and great-grandparent, that our young people are entering college without proper direction or good skills for money management or economic decisionmaking. 
   As we work on increasing access to higher education, we must give students access to the tools that they need to make sound economic and financial decisions once they are on campus. However, the lack of personal finance and economics State K-12 education standards or implementation of existing standards in K-12 education in a number of States results in many students arriving at college with little understanding of economic concepts like supply and demand or benefits versus costs, or personal finance concepts such as household money management or the importance of maintaining good credit history. Without this basic understanding, college students are not effectively evaluating credit alternatives, managing their debt, and preparing for long-term financial goals, such as saving for a home or retirement. 
   We can try to imagine what it's like to be a college student's shoes. A young adult leaves his home and travels thousands of miles, as do many Hawaii students attending mainland colleges, to the campus that holds his hopes and dreams. Perhaps farthest from his mind is how little spending money he has for textbooks, a new college sweatshirt, and school supplies. He gets to the campus bookstore and walks out with a bag that includes a preapproved credit card application, which he immediately fills out and mails. Months later, he has joined many other credit card-holding college student who, on average, have a credit card bill balance above $3,000. His sophomore year rolls around and, instead of conferring with his parents about the details of his renewal FAFSA for student financial aid or master promissory note, he is saddled with another $10,000 loan. According to The College Board, average college tuition and fees in 2003-04 increased to $19,710 for a four-year private institution and to $4,694 for a 4-year public institution. The same scenario repeats itself for his junior and senior years. Finally, after successfully completing all of his coursework, he graduates, finds an entry-level job, and realizes that, after servicing his debt, he has little money left for basics such as food, transportation, and rent, much less new career clothing or social outings. His lack of knowledge about how to properly use credit has led him to anxiety-causing financial missteps. With appropriate financial 
   and economic literacy, he may have known what debt load to anticipate and made wiser financing and spending decisions while in school. 
   Rather, he may be on the road to true financial trouble. Dan Iannicola, Jr., Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Financial Education, testified before a House subcommittee on Tuesday, that 40 percent of Americans say they live beyond their means, with the average American household having $8,900 in credit card debt in 2002--up from $3,200 just 10 years earlier. In 2001, more people filed for bankruptcy than graduated from college. Furthermore, the most recent Federal Reserve Bulletin reported that Americans currently pay 13.3 percent of after-tax income to service their debts, which increases to 18.1 percent when we add other recurring liabilities such as rent and auto leases. We must ensure that our youth make the right decisions to follow a better financial path, especially considering a report cited by Mr. Iannicola noting that youth spent more than $172 billion in a recent year, and figures from MarketResearch.com noting that typical 8- to 14-year-olds now spend--from allowances, jobs, and gifts--about $1,294 a year or $25 a week. 
   The College LIFE (Literacy in Finance and Economics) Act represents a comprehensive approach to assist upcoming generations of Americans. It proposes four new grant programs that provide resources to encourage experimentation with delivery systems--innovation methods used in or out of the classroom to increase college students' financial literacy. Another grant would allow higher education institutions to share best practices about or create personal finance courses where none exist. A third grant would assist efforts that are looking at the best ways to integrate personal finance and economic education into basic educational subjects, which is especially important as schools are facing challenges under the No Child Left Behind Act and are tempted to focus on subjects being tested for Annual Yearly Progress. The final grant would train teachers and high school counselors toward increasing financial and economic literacy in grades K-12 so that our college students are prepared when they arrive at college campuses. 
   The bill also proposes a pilot program for five higher education institutions to encourage students to take a personal finance course and participate in preventive annual credit counseling, working in conjunction with state or local public, private, and nonprofit entities selected by the local education  agency or the school, and measuring the effectiveness of efforts in any behavioral changes that may result. It promotes greater collaboration with and support from Federal agencies in the higher education arena with respect to economic and financial literacy. Finally, it emphasizes the importance of personal finance and economic education and counseling by authorizing these activities as allowable uses in existing Higher Education Act programs, such as TRIO, GEAR UP, and Title III and Title V Serving Institutions. 
   Furthermore, I intend the reach of this bill to be beyond the traditional college student. Our returning college students are a vital part of society--many who are already community leaders and breadwinners for their families who have already gained valuable work experience that they may use as they learn a new field or continue their undergraduate study in the pursuit of a graduate or doctoral degree. In addition, older adults who are entering higher 
   education for the first time can also be lauded for their enterprising spirit in wanting to better their lives by earning an associates or bachelors degree. I anticipate that the assistance provided through the College LIFE Act will work to provided needed help to many of these students as well. 
   I have been working on this bill over the better part of this year with several organizations in the higher education and economic and financial literacy community. I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the RECORD after my statement letters of support for the legislation from the National Council on Economic Education, Jump$tart Coalition for Personal Financial Literacy, and Family, Career and Community Leaders of America. I thank these and other organizations for their constant efforts in this area. For example, the National Council for Community and Education Partnerships (NCCEP) supports a provision including economic and financial literacy and counseling as allowable activities for the GEAR-UP program, which provides comprehensive mentoring, counseling, outreach, and supportive services to cohorts of disadvantaged students. Emphasis on economic and financial literacy as included in the bill would complement NCCEP'S current GEAR-UP activities that underscore the importance of the college-going experience and pursuit of postsecondary education--including discussions about financial aid, debt, grants vs. loans, savings, and tax credits--and involving parents or guardians to inform them on the costs of college and how to prepare for their child's entry into college. I will continue to work with these and other organizations toward increasing literacy in finance and economics for our students before they enter higher education and once they arrive on college campuses. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to support the Climate Stewardship Act of 2003. As a cosponsor of S. 139, I commend Senators Lieberman and McCain for their bipartisan efforts to craft an important first step in addressing the serious issue of climate change. As was mentioned by Senator Lieberman, Hawaii, a State in the Pacific, is certainly subject to climate change. I also support the proposed amendment which establishes an emissions reporting database, provides climate change research grants, and requires a freeze on current levels of greenhouse gas emissions using a cap and trade system. I compliment Senators Lieberman and McCain for their continued leadership on this issue. 
   The United States makes up less than 5 percent of the world's population, but releases the largest amount of greenhouse gases of any country. The U.S. accounts for roughly 25 percent of the world's global emissions. In 2001, the National Research Council conducted a study on greenhouse gases at the request of the Bush administration. The council reported that concentrations of greenhouse gases are increasing as a result of human activities. In other words, elevated levels of carbon dioxide are not due solely to natural climate variations. One example is the increase in energy production from the burning of fossil fuels. 
   The council concluded that increased concentrations of greenhouse gases are causing surface air temperatures and subsurface ocean temperatures to rise. As you can see in the first chart, the World Meteorological Organization, WMO, shows an increase in combined land and ocean temperatures during the past 120 years. We can see clearly the trend that has occurred and where it is at this time. If we look farther back in the historical record, the second chart shows a dramatic spike in air temperature just after the Industrial Revolution. We can see that spike and rapid rise on the chart. 
   The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, IPCC, a premier international working group, predicts an increase in air surface temperature. The IPCC estimates the increase would be between 2.5 to 10.4 degrees Fahrenheit from the year 1990 to 2100. The Panel also predicts that climate change will likely affect the distribution and availability of regional water resources. My colleagues should recognize that all the varied climate models and scenarios used by the IPCC show a continued increase in air surface temperature. 
   Strong evidence of increased atmospheric levels of greenhouse gases and climate change is obvious in my home State. The global warming debate began in Hawaii. Over 30 years ago, the Mauna Loa Climate Observatory documented evidence of increased carbon dioxide levels. This graph clearly shows an undeniable upward trend of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere around the world. 
   It is interesting to note, however, that island communities account for less than 1 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions. Major population centers and infrastructure are located along or near coastal areas. As a result, Pacific island nations are highly vulnerable to increased impacts of climate change. Scientists predict an increase of extreme climate change events such as hurricanes, floods, and droughts. The impacts of these events on business and agriculture in Hawaii and Pacific islands could be particularly severe and devastate our tourist-dependent economies. 
   In just the past 100 years, Honolulu's average temperature has increased 4.4 degrees Fahrenheit while precipitation has decreased by 20 percent. In Hawaii we have seen that ``El Nino'' events can have strong influences on our climate, causing prolonged periods of drought that hurt Hawaii's agricultural industry. Some climate projections show that the Pacific may actually transition into a more persistent ``El-Nino''-like state, causing dramatic changes to the ecosystem around the world. This change would not only affect farmers, but perhaps even permanently destroy many coral reefs and their associated fisheries throughout the Pacific. In the mid-1990s, El Nino events destroyed at least one-third of Palau's coral reefs. The costs of inaction on climate change far outweigh the costs of this bill. 
   Sea level rise is also a tremendous concern for Pacific island communities. It can greatly accelerate coastal erosion and saltwater intrusion into groundwater supplies. For many Pacific island nations facing severe shortages of drinking water, sea level rise is a devastating prospect. In Hawaii, sea level has risen six inches in Honolulu and nine inches in Hilo, the big island. The IPCC predicts that sea level will rise another one to two feet in the Pacific by the year 2100. The impacts of even a relatively small sea level rise on Pacific nations and atolls, some with maximum elevations which are less than ten feet above sea level, can be severe. As recently as 2001, rising sea levels caused the loss of land areas in Kiribati and Tuvalu, Pacific nations with low-lying atolls. In the Pacific, cultural activities were interwoven with the conservation of the environment. These traditions allowed the survival of dense populations on small land areas. Today, the global issue of climate change extends beyond our borders and threatens the livelihoods of these nations. Climate change is an important challenge and high priority for immediate action in the Pacific. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Mikulksi-Landrieu amendment to the Transportation/Treasury Appropriations bill. 
   I believe the Administration's revision to A-76 is unfair to Federal workers and threatens cost-effective and accountable Federal contracting. 
   The Commercial Activities Panel, which was mandated by Congress to find ways to improve A-76, was deeply divided on this issue. In fact, the Panel was so deeply divided that it issued two proposals to fix A-76: one supported by Federal employee unions and the other by Federal contractors, the Comptroller General, and certain Administration officials. 
   OMB's A-76 revision is controversial. The revision allows Federal jobs to be contracted out without appreciable cost-savings. Under the revision, Federal workers could lose their jobs before they have the chance to improve efficiencies. It does not allow Federal workers to compete for work already contracted out. Nor does the revision consider measures to improve government efficiencies outside eliminating Federal jobs. Moreover, it allows contractors to appeal decisions to contract out, but not Federal workers. 
   The revision does not reflect the idea of fair competition, and the revision is not in the public's interest. 
   The Mikulski-Landrieu amendment promotes fair competition by prohibiting the Administration from using what I believe is an unfair process for determining whether government work should be contracted out. The amendment does not stop privatization, nor would it force agencies to use the old A-76 rules or prevent OMB from making changes to A-76. 
   As the Ranking Member of both the Senate Governmental Affairs Financial Management Subcommittee and the Armed Services Readiness and Management Support Subcommittee, I believe we should develop contracting out policies that are fair to Federal workers and achieve the best return on the dollar. These goals are complementary. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, certain tax preparers are lining their pockets with money that should be going toward the everyday needs of lower income families. These preparers are taking advantage of those that have sought assistance in claiming the Earned Income Tax Credit, EITC, by successfully marketing to them to obtain refunds through exorbitantly priced refund anticipation loans, RALs. 
   An estimated $1.75 billion intended to assist low-income families went to commercial tax preparers and affiliated national banks for tax assistance, electronic filing of returns, and high-cost refund loans in 1999, according to a report published by the Brookings Institution. In 2001, 40.7 percent of taxpayers who earned the EITC received their refund through RALs. The States that had the highest percentage of EITC returns with RALs included Mississippi, 61.5, South Carolina, 58.9, Georgia, 57.6, North Carolina, 57.5, and Louisiana, 56.8. 
   The Internal Revenue Service, IRS, reduces the risk that lenders take on RALs by providing them a Debt Indicator, DI, on all IRS e-file acknowledgements. The DI informs the lender whether or not an applicant owes Federal or State taxes, child support, student loans, or other government obligations, and this assists the tax preparer in ascertaining the applicant's ability to obtain their full refund so that the RAL is repaid. The vast majority of refunds are remitted to the preparer as prepared. Thus, interest rates for RALs that vary from 97 percent to more than 2000 percent are not justifiable when the IRS lowers the risk of the loans by providing the DI service. 
   In 1995, the use of the DI was suspended because of massive fraud in e-filed returns with RALs. After the program was discontinued, RAL participation declined. The use of the DI was reinstated in 1999, according to H&R Block, to ``assist with screening for electronic filing fraud and is also expected to substantially reduce refund anticipation loan pricing.'' Although RAL prices were expected to go down as a result of the reinstatement of the DI, this has not occurred. The Debt Indicator should be stopped. 
   The Akaka amendment would prohibit the use of funds in H.R. 2989, the Fiscal Year 2004 Transportation, Treasury, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, for the Debt Indicator program. 
   The Akaka amendment has been endorsed by the Consumer Federation of America and the National Consumer Law Center. 
   The DI is helping tax preparers make excessive profits of low- and moderate-income taxpayers who utilize the service. If the Debt Indicator is removed, then the loans become riskier and the tax preparers may not aggressively market them among EITC filers. The IRS should not be aiding efforts that take the earned benefits away from low-income families and allow unscrupulous preparers to take advantage of low-income taxpayers. 
   RALS are extremely short-term loans that unnecessarily diminish the EITC. There are alternatives to speeding up refunds such as filing electronically or having the refund directly deposited into a bank or credit union account. Using these methods, taxpayers can receive their returns in about 7 to 10 days without paying the high fees associated with RALs. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that a letter and chart from the National Consumer Law Center be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to speak on an issue of great importance. I offered an amendment, but I was advised that it would have been an obstruction to the bill. In the interest of not holding up the bill, I agreed to withdraw my amendment, but I intend to address this issue on another vehicle. 
   I thank Senators BINGAMAN, EDWARDS, and FITZGERALD for agreeing to be cosponsors of this amendment. My amendment is supported by the Consumer Federation of America and the National Consumer Law Center. 
   Mr. President, certain tax preparers are lining their pockets with money that should be going toward the everyday needs of lower-income families. These preparers are taking advantage of those who have sought assistance in claiming the Earned Income Tax Credit, EITC, by successfully marketing to them exorbitantly priced refund anticipation loans, RALs. Although these firms work to guide families through the sometimes complicated tax filing process, I am concerned about their aggressive marketing of RALs in low-income neighborhoods where EITC recipients often live. These loans take money away from the day-to-day, kitchen-table needs of lower-income families. 
   What is the extent of this problem? An estimated $839 million intended to assist low-income families went to commercial tax preparers and affiliated national banks for tax assistance, electronic filing of returns, and high-cost refund loans in 2001, according to a report published by the Brookings Institution. As you can see on the chart behind me, a total of 18.7 million returns were filed with EITC claims. Of these, 7.6 million or 41 percent of EITC taxpayers received their refund through RALs. I will ask to print in the RECORD a document compiled by Alan Berube from the Brookings Institution on usage of RALs among EITC recipients by State. If I may pick out some of the States where RALs are most prevalent. I would like to note that Mississippi tops the list, with 61.5 percent of EITC returns with RALs. South Carolina, Georgia, North Carolina, Louisiana, Alabama, Tennessee, Arkansas, Texas, and the District of Columbia round out the top 10, with slightly more than half of DC's EITC returns filed with RALs. Again, the point here is that RALs unfairly diminish the value of the EITC and take money away from working families, which is not justified by the service provided. 
   Mr. President, the EITC was created to support work and reduce poverty. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the Federal credit lifts more children out of poverty than any other Government program. However, the EITC will not continue to boast this rate of success if it continues to be eroded by the artificially high cost of highly-marketed RALs. Rather than going to pay for household essentials like food, housing, clothing, and transportation, families are being convinced to spend this money unnecessarily on RALs, rather than waiting a few more days for a tax refund deposited at no cost to them. 
   Let me talk for a moment about the mechanics of how RALs work. A taxpayer approaches a company for tax preparation services, applies for the EITC, and is convinced to use the RAL, which provides families cash from their calculated refund within 1 to 2 days. In the RAL application process, the Internal Revenue Service, IRS, reduces the risk that lenders. 
   Take on RALs by providing them with a Debt Indicator, DI, on all IRS e-file acknowledgments. The DI informs the lender whether or not an applicant owes Federal or State taxes, child support, student loans, or other government obligations, and this assists the tax preparer in ascertaining the applicant's ability to obtain their full refund so that the RAL is repaid. The vast majority of refunds are remitted to the preparer as prepared. Thus, interest rates for RALs that vary from 97 percent to more than 2,000 percent are not justifiable when the IRS lowers the risk of the loans by providing the DI service. My amendment terminates the use of the Debt Indicator service. For anyone who is wondering whether ending RALs pose a hardship on the very families I am working to help, there are alternatives to speeding up refunds, such as filing electronically or having the refund directly deposited into a bank or credit union account. Using these methods, taxpayers can receive their returns in about 7 to 10 days without paying the high fees associated with RALs. With economic and financial literacy awareness--which I am also pursuing for all age levels--we can help people have better access to sound money management skills and practices that can help them to plan in advance for the minimal delay of a few days for their refund. However, at this point, we must work to encourage the use of no-cost alternatives and eliminate the abusive practice of RALs. 
   Once again, my amendment would terminate the Debt Indicator program. If we look at the history of this program, the path taken in my amendment is a fix that must be reinstated. In 1995, the use of the Debt Indicator was suspended because of massive fraud in e-filed returns with RALs. After the program was discontinued, RAL participation declined. The use of the Debt Indicator was reinstated in 1999. Remarks from H & R Block Chief Executive Officer Frank L. Salizzoni upon the reinstatement of the program state that the Debt Indicator:  
   .....is good news for many of our clients who opt to receive the amount of their refund through Refund Anticipation Loans. The IRS program will likely result in substantially lower fees for this service.   
   However, according to a study conducted by the Consumer Federation of America and the National Consumer Law Center, that has not been the case for at least one of the major tax preparers. H & R Block and Household Bank's fees dropped for a year after the DI was reinstated. However, the trend reversed itself and the fees rose significantly from 2000 to 2001, which increased H & R Block's revenue from RALs by 49 percent. Per RAL revenue rose by 44 percent while RAL sales volume increased by only 2.7 percent. Therefore, the expected outcome that RAL prices would go down as a result of the reinstatement of the indicator has not occurred. Rather, it has gone in the opposite direction as the profit motive has presented itself. 
   It is important at this point to recall the ideal of actions by government agencies to ``do no harm.'' However, the Debt Indicator conveniently provides information about an individual's credit history that is in many cases only known by the Federal Government and is helping tax preparers make excessive profits of low- and moderate-income taxpayers who utilize the service. If the Debt Indicator is removed, then the loans become riskier and the tax preparers may not aggressively market them among EITC filers. The IRS should not be aiding efforts that take the earned benefits away from low-income families and allow unscrupulous preparers to take advantage of low-income taxpayers. 
   Again, I agree to withdraw my amendment at this time, but I encourage all of my colleagues to support my efforts to address this issue in order to protect low-income working families from the predatory practice of RALs and eliminate the ability of the IRS to facilitate the processing of RALs by ending the DI. 
   SPEED RAIL STUDY
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of the amendment offered by the Senator from Nevada, Mr. Reid, to prohibit the use of fiscal year 2004 Interior funds to initiate public private competitions at the Department of the Interior, including the National Park Service. This amendment takes an important step to ensure that vital public services at Interior are not put at risk by the administration's aggressive plans to contract out Federal jobs. 
   As the ranking member of the National Parks Subcommittee, I view the administration's outsourcing policies as especially harmful to the National Park Service. I am particularly concerned that the outsourcing of Park Service jobs could target biologists, anthropologists and archaeologists. 
   During a Parks Subcommittee hearing this summer, Scot McElveen, the president of the Association of National Park Rangers testified that current outsourcing policies seriously threaten reliable, effective, and efficient service to the public. 
   Mr. McElveen said the administration's outsourcing plan is incompatible with the Parks Service's decentralized workforce. Furthermore, he noted that it would only worsen National Parks' current staffing and budgetary shortfalls by diverting funds for operations and maintenance to contract out jobs. 
   I agree with Mr. McElveen. I fail to see how outsourcing functions within the Parks Service will improve their mission to protect our national parks, historic sites, monuments, and other treasured places. Park Service employees have a strong sense of public service which cannot be replicated by the private sector. 
   I believe this amendment takes the measures needed to ensure that contracting out at the Department of the Interior does not come at the expense of our National Parks. 
   The Reid amendment is identical to language included in H.R. 2691, the House Interior Appropriations bill. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation with my friend and colleague from Hawaii, Senator INOUYE, to provide certain Federal public benefits for citizens of the Freely Associated States (FAS) who are residing in the United States. The bill would provide eligibility for non-emergency Medicaid, Food Stamps, Temporary Assistance to Needy Families, and Supplemental Security Income to FAS citizens residing in the United States. 
   Citizens from the FAS are citizens from the Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI), Federated States of Micronesia (FSM), and Palau. The United States has a very unique relationship with the FSM, RMI, and Palau. The Compact of Free Association established these Nations as sovereign States responsible for their own foreign policies. However, the Freely Associated States remain dependent upon the United States for military protection and economic assistance. 
   The Compact provides that the United States has the prerogative to reject the strategic use of, or military access to, the FAS by other countries, which is often referred to as the ``right of strategic denial.'' The Compact also provides that the United States may block FAS government policies that it deems inconsistent with its duty to defend the FAS, which is referred to as the ``defense veto.'' Under the Compact, the United States has exclusive military base rights in the FAS. In exchange, the United States is required to support the FAS economically, with the goal of producing self-sufficiency, and FAS citizens are allowed entry into the United States as non-immigrants for the purposes of education, medical treatment, and employment. 
   The Senate is considering S.J. Res. 16, the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003, which was favorably reported by the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources this morning. S.J. Res. 16 is the codification of title II of the Compact pertaining to economic relations. 
   As FAS citizens are allowed free entry into the United States as part of the Compact, many FAS citizens reside in the State of Hawaii. Since 1997, when Hawaii began reporting its impact costs, the State has identified over $140 million in costs associated with FAS citizens. In 2002, the State of Hawaii expended over $32 million in assistance to FAS citizens. S.J. Res. 16 provides $30 million in annual funding for Compact impact assistance to be shared between the State of Hawaii, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa. While this funding is a positive step forward, it does not begin to reimburse the affected jurisdictions for the costs associated with FAS citizens living in Hawaii. 
   The legislation we are introducing today would provide assistance to States and territories who have continued to shoulder the majority of the costs associated with the Compact. The Federal Government must provide appropriate resources to help States meet the needs of the FAS citizens--an obligation based on a Federal commitment. It is unconscionable for a State or territory to shoulder the entire financial burden of providing necessary education, medical, and social services to individuals who are residing in that State or territory when the obligation is that 
   of the Federal Government. For that reason, I am seeking to provide reimbursement of these costs. It is time for the Federal Government to take up some of the financial responsibility that until now has been carried by the State of Hawaii, CNMI, and Guam, by restoring public benefits to FAS citizens. 
   This bill would restore eligibility of FAS citizens for non-emergency Medicaid. FAS citizens lost many of their public benefits as a result of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity (PRWORA) Act of 1996, including Medicaid coverage. FAS citizens were previously eligible for Medicaid as aliens permanently residing under color of law in the United States. 
   After the enactment of welfare reform, the State of Hawaii could no longer claim Federal matching funds for services rendered to FAS citizens. Since then, the State of Hawaii, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands have continued to meet the health care needs of FAS citizens. The State of Hawaii has used State resources to provide Medicaid services to FAS citizens.  In 2002 alone, the State spent approximately $6.75 million to provide Medicaid services without receiving any Federal matching funds. 
   There has been an increasing trend in the need for health care services among FAS citizens. During the current fiscal year, the number of individuals served in the State of Hawaii's Medicaid Program has grown from 3,291 to 4,818 people based on the average monthly enrollment. This is an increase of 46 percent. For only the first half of the fiscal year, the State of Hawaii has spent $4.66 million for the Medicaid costs incurred for FAS citizens. These Medicaid costs do not reflect additional State expenditures on medical care contracts to care for the uninsured, for community health care services, and for the activities of the Department of Health's Communicable Disease Branch. 
   This bill would also provide eligibility for FAS citizens residing in the United States to participate in the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families and Supplemental Security Income programs. According to Hawaii's Attorney General, financial assistance in the form of the Temporary Assistance to Other Needy Families (TAONF) program, a State program, provided $4.5 million to FAS citizens in State Fiscal Year 2002. Of this total, $390,000 was provided through the General Assistance program, which supports individuals and couples with little or no income and who have a temporary, incapacitating medical condition; $532,000 supported aged, blind, and disabled FAS citizens with little or no income who are not eligible for Federally funded Supplemental Security Income; and $3.6 million was spent on the State's TAONF program that assists other needy families who are not eligible for Federal funding under the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families program. The number of FAS citizens served by the Hawaii Department of Human Services has increased by almost 20 percent in the span of one year alone. The financial assistance that the State of Hawaii provides to FAS citizens in the form of TAONF is a great support to those families attempting to achieve economic stability, but it has a significant financial impact on the State's budget. 
   The bill would also provide eligibility for the Food Stamp Program. The Food Stamp Program serves as the first line of defense against hunger. It is the cornerstone of the Federal food assistance program and provides crucial support to needy households and those making the transition for welfare to work. We have partially addressed the complicated issue of alien eligibility for public benefits such as food stamps, but again, I must say it is just partial. Not only should all legal immigrants receive these benefits, but so too citizens of the FAS. Exclusion of FAS citizens from Federal, State, or local public benefits or programs is an unintended and misguided consequence of the welfare reform law. 
   We allow certain legal immigrants eligibility in the program. Yet FAS citizens, who are not considered immigrants, but who are required to sign up for the Selective Service if they are residing in the United States, are ineligible to receive food stamps. This bill corrects this inequity. 
   I look forward to working with my colleagues to enact this measure which is of critical importance to my State of Hawaii, which has borne the costs of these benefits for FAS citizens living in Hawaii for the past 17 years. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD.  
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to comment on the debate over funding for the administration's request for studying new nuclear weapons in the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill. 
   The administration proposes that Congress fund the study of two new nuclear weapons: a robust nuclear earth penetrator, RNEP, and a low yield nuclear weapon. 
   Why does the United States need these new nuclear weapons? 
   The administration's case for these new nuclear weapons presumes that deterrence may not be working well in the post-cold war security environment. Leaders of rogue states may conclude that the United States cannot attack their deep bunkers or weapons of mass destruction, WMD, and so act or use their WMD with impunity. These new nuclear weapons supposedly will bolster the U.S. deterrent. 
   But does our nuclear arsenal no longer deter? 
   Deterrence involves credibly threatening an enemy to deter them from taking unwanted actions. It involves having the forces to fulfill the threat  and the resolve to carry out the threat. We have enough nuclear weapons to accomplish this goal. Over a decade after the end of the cold war we possess an arsenal that could still end life on earth as we know it. This massive destructive power should give pause to any nation or dictator that wants to attack the United States with nuclear weapons. 
   While the Congress was on recess, the annual remembrance of the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the end of World War II passed. On August 6, 1945, the United States dropped the first atomic bomb on Hiroshima. Three days later another was dropped on Nagasaki. Shortly thereafter Japan surrendered, ending World War II. 
   The Hiroshima bomb had an explosive power of 15 kilotons of TNT and killed almost 70,000 people immediately and injured as many more. The Nagasaki bomb was 22 kilotons and killed 40,000 people and injured another 25,000. There had been devastating conventional bombing attacks during World War II. The fire bombings of Dresden and Tokyo also caused widespread damage and loss of life. But the realization that one plane with one bomb could destroy a city was a new and fearsome development. 
   After the end of World War II and the onset of the cold war, the U.S. arsenal expanded rapidly. By 1960, more than ten thousand nuclear weapons were in the U.S. arsenal. Weapons had expanded from kiloton to megaton size. The U.S. arsenal grew to have 20,500 megatons of TNT explosive power. 
   A megaton is an enormous amount of destructive power. A kiloton is a thousand tons. A megaton is a million tons. In 1960, the U.S. arsenal had almost seven tons of TNT of explosive power for every one of the three billion men, women and children on the planet. 
   The massive overkill of the U.S. arsenal, like its Soviet counterpart, has declined since the 1960s. The United States still keeps thousands of nuclear weapons. But the average explosive power of a U.S. nuclear weapons has decreased. As a result the U.S. arsenal today contains only some 1,200 megatons of explosive power. Still enough, however, for 400 lbs. for every person on Earth. 
   Some advocates of small nuclear weapons claim massive firepower is a poor deterrent. They argue that the United States would not use a large nuclear weapon for a limited strike. They further argue that smaller, more usable nuclear weapons will be a more credible deterrent because rogue state leaders will believe the United States could use them. The administration proposes to investigate the possibilities of a new nuclear weapon with a yield of less than five kilotons to meet this goal. 
   Five kilotons is one third the size of the Hiroshima bomb. It is not a low-yield weapon. It is equivalent to 5,000 tons of ten million pounds of TNT. Yet, the use of such new lower yield nuclear weapons is incredible because it is impractical and there are conventional weapons that can or will be able to do the job. We are told there are dozens if not hundreds of buried hardened targets. Without excellent intelligence on where WMD or rogue leaders may be hidden, the United States would need to drop dozens or hundreds of nuclear weapons. The radioactive fallout from such a strike would be large. The international political fallout would be massive and so would be the international environmental effects. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the need for greater preparation to protect our agriculture from a terrorist attack. 
   After September 11, the President placed agriculture on the list of critical infrastructure that deserved to be protected from an agroterrorist attack. Since then, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, USDA, has moved to improve our preparedness to prevent and respond to an attack upon our agriculture. The President's February 2003 ``National Strategy for the Physical Protection of Critical Infrastructures and Key Assets'' also outlines a strategy for increasing our ability to react to an agroterrorist attack. Yet, we still have a long way to go in protecting our agriculture industry. 
   There has been a steady drumbeat of warnings about the vulnerability of our agriculture. Two major studies were recently released that concluded we should do more to guard our agriculture. The Council on Foreign Relations, CFR, published a report on our emergency response capability that said we lacked an effective response to an attack on our national food supply. The report recommended spending an additional $2.1 billion over the next 5 years to improve our ``animal/agricultural'' emergency response. 
   On the heels of the CFR report, the Partnership for Public Service issued a study that examined whether the Federal Government has the necessary expertise to defend against a bioterrorist attack. In regards to agricultural security, it said that federal agencies responsible for safeguarding our agriculture and food supply from bioweapons would face ``crushing burdens'' if our food and water supplies were contaminated. 
   These are just the most recent reports that recommend we need to do more to increase our guard. Last fall, the National Academy of Sciences published a major study on vulnerability of U.S. agriculture. The General Accounting Office, GAO, has issued three reports in the last year that looked at food processing security, foot and mouth disease, and mad cow disease. All suggested that we still have a way to go to prevent or prepare for an attack on our agriculture. 
   An attack on our agriculture could have serious consequences. Agricultural activity accounts for approximately 13 percent of the U.S. gross domestic product and nearly 17 percent of domestic employment. The United States is a top producer and exporter of agricultural goods, including beef, pork, poultry, wheat, corn and soybeans. Major agricultural States could be severely affected depending on the nature of the attack. 
   States with large cattle herds could be devastated by a deliberately set outbreak of foot and mouth disease. There were over 96 million cattle and calves in the United States valued at some $70 billion in 2003. Texas has the largest number by far, 14 million animals, and could be particularly hard hit. In 2001, the cattle industry generated $6.8 billion in income for Texas. The breeding herd of beef cows is particularly concentrated in Kansas, Kentucky, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Tennessee, and Texas, with each State having have more than a million head of beef cows. 
   Dairy States could also suffer. The United States has over nine million milk cows that produce almost $25 billion in income. California and Wisconsin are the largest producers. Both have more than a million milk cows that yield close to $8 billion in income. But a number of States--Idaho, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, and Washington each have more than 200,000 cows, contributing substantially to their economies. 
   Hog-raising States also could be vulnerable to the spread of foot-and-mouth disease, or to an outbreak of African swine fever. The United States had almost 60 million hogs and pigs valued at over $4 billion dollars in 2002. Iowa has the largest industry with more than 15 million animals valued at over a billion dollars. North Carolina is next with some 9.6 million animals valued at a half a billion dollars. Ten additional States have substantial industries with more than a million animals: Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, and South Dakota. 
   States with large poultry industries are vulnerable to Exotic Newcastle Disease or avian influenza. In 2002, 14 States had flocks of over 15 million birds each: Alabama, Arkansas, California, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nebraska, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Texas. Iowa alone has over 40 million birds valued at over $64 million. 
   Crops, such as wheat, could also be a target. A purposeful spread of the Karnal bunt wheat fungus could have a strong adverse impact on U.S. exports. The United States is the world's leading exporter of wheat, accounting for almost one-third of world wheat exports valued at over $3.5 billion in 2002. Since almost 80 countries do not allow Karnal infected wheat to be imported, a ban on U.S. exports could have a substantial effect on the U.S. economy. The Economic Research Service of the USDA 
   estimated that the total cost of a reduction of exports from 2003 to 2007 could be over $7 billion if there was such a ban. The top wheat-producing States--Kansas, Montana, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, and Washington--would be particularly hard hit. 
   I have been concerned about the vulnerability of our agriculture for quite some time. When I was a member of the House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, I was a supporter of the USDA's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, APHIS. APHIS plays a critical role in guarding our borders and farms from agricultural pests and diseases, something that is of prime importance to Hawaii. As a Senator, I continue to be concerned about this problem. In the 107th Congress I introduced a bill to enhance agricultural biosecurity in the United States. 
   In this Congress, I have introduced two bills that will help address our shortcomings in agricultural security preparedness. The Agriculture Security Assistance Act, S. 427, and Agriculture Security Preparedness Act, S. 430, are designed to address the need for increasing coordination in confronting the threat to America's agriculture industry. The two bills provide for better funding and better-coordinated response to an incident of agroterrorism. The bills will also serve to increase our defenses against debilitating agroterrorism attacks.  
   The Agriculture Security Assistance Act is primarily aimed at assisting States and communities in responding to threats to the agriculture industry. The legislation will provide funds for communities and States to increase their ability to handle a crisis. It also will help animal health professionals to participate in community emergency planning activities to assist agriculturists in strengthening their defenses against a terrorist threat. 
   The Agriculture Security Preparedness Act will enable better interagency coordination thereby enhancing agriculture security. The legislation will establish senior level liaisons in Departments of Homeland Security, DHS, and Health and Human Services, HHS, to coordinate with USDA on agricultural disease emergency management and response. The bill requires DHS and USDA to work with the Department of Transportation to address the risks associated with transporting animals, plants, and people between and around farms. 
   Recently Mother Nature has provided warnings of the costs and dangers of a possible agroterrorist attack. In May, Canadians discovered that an 8-year-old cow that had been killed in January was infected with mad cow disease. The same disease affected cattle in Britain in the 1980s and 1990s leading to a slaughter of over 3.7 million animals. 
   Canada faced an enormous adverse economic impact due to the discovery of the mad cow disease. Canada's cattle industry generates $7 billion in cattle sales and the industry remained paralyzed during the period immediately following the discovery of the disease. Major importers of Canada's beef, like the United States, Mexico, Japan and Australia, temporarily halted their imports causing almost $8 million a day loss to the cattle industry. The news also affected companies like McDonald's, Wendy's, and Tyson Foods. 
   Canada acted to control the spread of the disease by quarantining herds of suspected cattle and slaughtering them to test for the presence of the disease. All the herds believed to have come in contact with the infected cow were quarantined and killed for medical examination. More than 2,700 Canadian cattle were slaughtered and eighteen farms were quarantined in the process of determining the disease's source and to control the spread of the disease. 
   In the United States, the southwest poultry industry has been beset by a costly outbreak of Exotic Newcastle Disease, END, since last fall. The outbreak was first detected in a backyard chicken flock in Los Angeles County in early October 2002. It then spread to Nevada, Arizona and Texas. Over the past months, some 25 countries including the European Union have put embargoes on chicken from affected areas. In Texas, where the poultry industry employs about 15,000 people and is ranked sixth in the Nation, the industry said it could lose about $100 million as a result of the embargoes. In California, State officials ordered the destruction of more than 3 million birds, enforcing a quarantine over a wide area. The outbreak in 2002 and 2003 cost the state almost $100 million to control the spread of the disease. 
   We all know an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. The Nation's capability to counter agroterrorism is increasing. But agriculture's central importance to our country suggests greater efforts are needed. As the recent cases of Mad Cow and Exotic Newcastle disease dramatically demonstrate, the consequences of a lack of preparedness could be quite high. Containing these naturally occurring diseases was costly and it involved extensive coordination. It could be much more difficult to counter a deliberate attack. The two bills I have introduced will help us to act now so that a future agroterrorist attack can be avoided, or dealt with rapidly before it can get out of hand. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to enter into a colloquy with colleagues who share my zeal for quality mentoring programs, Senators ALLEN and BEN NELSON, and the distinguished leaders on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies. My concern is with the adequacy of the funding level for mentoring included in this bill today. For the two programs focused exclusively on mentoring, the Department of Education's Mentoring Programs grants and the Department of Health and Human Services' Mentoring for Children of Prisoners, the bill before us commits just $38.6 million--well short of the President's request of $150 million. I understand that limited resources are constraining the amounts we are able to provide for many programs, and I thank the chairman and ranking member for the increased they included in this bill for Mentoring Programs. But I do hope we can find some funding to further increase the allocation for mentoring. 
   I'm sure we can all remember an adult who made a difference for each of us growing up by spending time with us, encouraging us, and serving as a positive role model. That is exactly what mentoring is: a sustained relationship between a young person and an adult in which the adult provides support, guidance, and assistance to the young person. The benefits of a mentoring relationship are wide-ranging--including gains in educational achievement, health and safety, and social and emotional development. 
   We have some wonderful mentoring programs in Hawai'i, and they have an invaluable impact on young people throughout my State. One of these excellent examples has been the Senior Kupuna in the Preschools Project run by the Hawaii Intergenerational Network that has achieved meaningful results such as positive changes in classroom behavior. But these programs need additional funding to serve more young people. 
   I would like to work with the distinguished chairman and ranking member of the subcommittee to increase funding for mentoring in Conference to a level at least equal to the House allocation of $75 million. Before I yield the floor to them, I am pleased to yield at this time to another strong advocate of mentoring programs, the former Governor of Virginia, Senator ALLEN. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I yield myself 30 minutes to offer an amendment to the Labor-HHS appropriations bill to add $5 million in funding to the bill before the Senate for the Excellence in Economic Education Act. 
   I thank amendment cosponsors Senators ALLEN, SARBANES, CORZINE, KENNEDY, STABENOW, and DODD for their support. Our leaders on the Labor-HHS Appropriations Subcommittee, Senators SPECTER and HARKIN, have been helpful in working with me on this effort. I appreciate the difficult job they have before them to remain within tight budget constraints imposed on us by necessary increases for military operations in Iraq and the newest round of tax cuts. I opposed the budget resolution and the tax bill because I knew that it could lead to this appropriations fight, spurred by unrealistic caps on important education, social welfare, and other domestic programs, pitting important priorities against each other. Despite these challenges facing the bill before us, I hope that we can work something out to have the Excellence in Economic Education Act, or Triple-E, funded. 
   The Triple-E provides significant resources for economics and personal finance education, which are not receiving due attention by Congress. Although the Triple-E was included in the No Child Left Behind Act, the only comprehensive economic education program being funded by this bill is one to assist the teaching of economics outside of this country. I fully support grants to improve the quality of civic and economic education through exchange programs with emerging democracies, which represent important efforts to foster democracy in former Soviet states and other areas of the world. However, the lack of support for a corresponding authorized domestic program is unconscionable. This is particularly disturbing as schools must prepare for the first National Assessment of Educational Progress, NAEP, in Economics, which according to the National Assessment Governing Board, is on track for 2006. The Triple-E can fill this gap in domestic support for economic and financial literacy, but the program must be funded. 
   Let me tell you what I am referring to when I mention economics and personal finance education. These are very practical subjects that everyone should know--as basic in many cases as are reading, writing, and arithmetic. Again, referring to the 2006 NAEP in Economics, the framework for the assessment states that economic literacy includes an understanding of ``the fundamental constraints imposed by limited resources, the resulting choices people have to make, and the trade-offs they face; how economies and markets work and how people function within them; and the benefits and costs of economic interaction and interdependence among people and nations.'' 
   The framework continues to note that literacy in this area ``also includes having the skills that allow people to function effectively in their roles as consumers, producers, savers, investors, and responsible citizens. These skills include economic reasoning, problem solving, decision making, and the ability to analyze real-life situations.'' 
   Personal finance, which is an important component of economics, speaks cogently to situations that Americans face every day. How are we making decisions when we pull out our wallets at the grocery store or in the lunch line? Are we each checking our credit reports regularly and understanding how they contribute to a bank's or credit union's decision about whether our loan applications will be approved? How are families making budgeting choices every week, and are they sticking to those choices? This is difficult to say, given that personal bankruptcy filings continue to set record levels. For the first quarter of 2003, household debt service payments were almost 14  percent of disposable personal income. During the first 3 months of 2003, the percentage of mortgages in the foreclosure process climbed to another record high. We may attribute much of this to current economic conditions. However, I daresay that some of the financial troubles faced by Americans today could have been mitigated if they received pragmatic, standards-based education from a young age, when individuals are forming the habits that they may take with them throughout their lives. 
   Indeed, our children are not being fully prepared by our schools to face the realities of life because they are proving to be illiterate in economics and personal finance. According to the 2002 National Jump$tart Survey, economic and financial literacy scores have declined since the Jump$tart Coalition for Personal Financial Literacy conducted its first survey of high school seniors in 1997. The significance of surveying high school students is that high school is the last formal opportunity many individuals will have to acquire a comprehensive understanding of economic and personal finance. Therefore, the results from the 2002 survey indicating failing scores from more than 68 percent of high school seniors taking the survey are troubling. They failed to demonstrate an understanding of the basic fundamentals of economics and personal financial management. For instance, the survey found that the majority of students believed that interest from a savings account may not be taxed. They also thought that an elderly retired man and his wife, who is also retired, should have the highest amount of life insurance, as opposed to a young single mother with children. While some may not think that this is important, young adults entering the workforce should understand that interest from investments, including savings accounts, is a form of income that is taxable just like one's salary. In addition, life insurance is meant to provide income for those who are significantly dependent upon the primary income earner in the family. The survey also found the greatest declines in scores on questions relating to money management and savings. 
   The need to provide funding for the Triple-E Act is now. We need to send a message to our schools that we will support economic and personal finance studies. While results from the Jump$tart survey are illuminating, many public high schools did not participate out of concern that poor scores would require them to focus valuable and limited resources on courses other than those such as math, English, and science. As schools hesitate to understand the real-world implications of this attitude toward personal finance and economic education, it is the students who are the real losers. 
   My attention was drawn to the need in this area faced by the State I represent. Over the August recess, I cosponsored with the Hawaii Council on Economic Education Hawaii's first ever Economic and Financial Literacy Conference, which drew tremendous support from many different levels and sectors of the community. I was pleased to have representatives from the Departments of Education and the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board, Jump$tart and the National Council on Economic Education--NCEE, as well as a broad array of representatives from Hawaii's business and education sectors, State Legislature, and Governor's office. The more than 200 people at the conference heard the results of a survey of adults in Hawaii's workforce-- beneficiaries of Hawaii's education system. Although those taking the survey correctly answered an average of 13 in 20 questions, many did not have a clear understanding of basic concepts such as what constitutes a budget deficit and what is the significance of the stock market. Furthermore, the University of Hawaii department of economics unveiled a paper showing a steady increase then sharp decline in economic education in Hawaii in 1999. Thus, in the State I know best, despite a clear community interest in economic and personal finance education, we have a long way to go toward serving our children in these important subjects. 
   Furthermore, students are not receiving this education at home, with only about 1 in 4, or 26 percent, of 13- to 21-year-olds reporting that their parents actively taught them to manage money. I am not advocating for government to be assuming this role in lieu of parents doing so. However, many Americans begin their roles as parents without having received adequate economics and personal finance education themselves, and thus lack the tools to provide their children with sound advice or the ability to steer them to useful resources. 
   With this point made, let us turn the spotlight on state education systems. How are they 
   doing in this area? I am sad to say not as well as they could be doing. According to the third biennial survey of States by the NCEE, the number of States having economic standards grew dramatically. In 1998, 38 States included economics in their standards. In 2000 and 2002, ten more States adopted economic standards. However, the percentage of States with standards who required them to be implemented dropped from 75 to 71 percent from 2000 to 2002. Furthermore, only one in four States tested students' economics knowledge in 1998. The current economics testing picture is in the chart behind me, where you can see only a marginal improvement to 27 States testing students, with four others--Indiana, Nebraska, Oregon, and Utah--in development. Hawaii is included in those States not testing students. Again, with the upcoming 2006 NAEP, although we are presently unsure which students will be tested, it would behoove States to begin assessing where their students are in terms of understanding economics. 
   Measuring the presence of personal finance in State standards produces a picture even more bleak, with ground lost in key measures. According to NCEE, the number of States including personal finance in education standards grew from 21 to 40 from 1998 to 2000, but then fell dramatically to 31 States in 2002. The status of standards implementation is even worse, but slowly improving, from 14 States in 1998 to 17 in 2002. Regarding testing, although personal finance is often part of another subject test such as economics, only eight States conduct personal finance testing, with another two States with tests in development. As you can see in my next chart, testing is currently required in Alabama, Illinois, Kentucky, Maine, Michigan, New Mexico, North Carolina, and Rhode Island, with tests planned or in development in Oregon and Utah. The bright spot there is that this is a significant increase from 1998, when only one State tested student achievement in personal finance. 
   In a related testing matter, Triple-E funding would be an important help at the State and local levels as school districts are facing the challenges of meeting Annual Yearly Progress requirements under the No Child Left Behind Act. We must provide States the opportunity to explore the possibility that math and reading scores could be increased, if economics and personal finance are integrated into these other basic subjects. We all know children who may not easily be able to add apples and oranges but can instantly arrive at an answer to a calculation involving dollars and cents. 
   In fact, this type of integration in teaching economics and personal finance was discussed at length at a roundtable sponsored on May 16, 2002, by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, involving the U.S. Department of Education, education groups such as the Council of Chief State School Officers and National Association of Elementary School Principals, and economic and financial literacy organizations such as the National Council on Economic Education, Junior Achievement, and the Jump$tart Coalition. The roundtable resulted in a white paper which says that if we dedicate ourselves to integrating financial concepts into reading and mathematics curricula, we can teach children the basics of financial education via several access points. Modes of entry include developing standards of financial education, creating tests that correspond to the curricula taught in classrooms, cooperating with publishers 
   of textbooks and other instructional materials to stress the incorporation of financial concepts into their products, promoting the use of ``off-the-shelf financial education curricula'' distributed by community  groups dedicated to financial education, and training those most responsible for conveying these valuable lessons to students--our educators. 
   It is also noted in the white paper that States requiring students to complete financial education courses produce graduates who have higher savings rates and net worth, as a percentage of earnings, compared with those who graduate from schools in States with no such requirement. Society as a whole benefits from higher levels of savings and investment, which drive economic activity. 
   All of this provides the broad context of why I am offering my amendment today. The Triple-E will ensure that vital resources will go to the national, State, and local levels to provide a needed boost to economic and financial literacy. The Triple-E Act would work to do this by awarding a competitive grant to a national nonprofit educational organization that exists primarily to improve student understanding about economic and financial literacy through the classroom. The organization would distribute 75 percent of funds to State and local partnerships for teacher training, assistance to school districts desiring to incorporate economics and personal finance into curricula, evaluations of the impact of economic and financial literacy education on students, related research, and school-based student activities. The national organization would use the rest of the grant for the strengthening of relationships with State and local entities, teacher training, research on effective teaching practices, assessment development, and material development and dissemination. 
   Furthermore, the intent of the approach in the Triple-E, due to a federal match requirement, is to help existing and new programs to be self-supporting and involve the entities that should be on the front lines advocating financial and economic literacy; that is, banks, credit unions, businesses, and private industry. They are the very entities that benefit from a well-educated citizenry that knows how to take advantage of opportunities for savings, borrowing, and investing, and avoiding financial mistakes such as misusing credit or having to file for bankruptcy. In general, these entities want the very best education for the next generation of managers, entrepreneurs, business leaders, and consumers so that sound financial decisions can be made, economic growth can continue, and Americans can be good consumers who pay their bills on time and remain personally financially independent. As Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan noted in a recent speech to the Jump$tart Coalition, ``Building bridges between community organizations, our educational institutions, and private businesses will be an essential aspect of our efforts to increase familiarity with new technological and financial tools that are fundamental to improving individual economic well-being. And the success of such efforts will bear significantly on how well prepared our society is to meet the challenges of an increasingly knowledge-based economy.'' A cooperative approach is necessary to help current efforts thrive, which is the type of effort supported by the Triple-E Act. 
   I would like to note at this time that this body already expressed support for the type of education advocated by the Triple-E Act when it passed my resolution designating April 2003 as Financial Literacy for Youth Month. I am pleased that the other body followed suit by passing a similar version of my resolution, both of which contributed to the effort to raise awareness for financial literacy. This effort is also supported by various organizations, many associated with the Jump$tart Coalition for Personal Financial Literacy. For example, America's Community Bankers stated, `` ..... we are strong supporters of financial literacy initiatives because ACB believes that informed consumers--including young consumers--are better able to make wise credit and other financial decisions.'' 
   Another letter from the North American Securities Administrators Association states:  
   As a majority of Americans have become investors, there is an obligation to ensure individuals have a basic understanding of the principles of savings and investing, as well as preserving their accumulated wealth. Every day, it becomes more apparent that there is a population of investors who are ill equipped to make critical financial decisions for their lives.  
   One could only read the names of entities and organizations that are a part of the Jump$tart Coalition to understand how broad the base of support is for financial and economic literacy. 
   Many States are echoing these supportive statements, including my State of Hawaii. I was delighted that the Hawaii State Legislature approved a resolution similar to my Senate resolution and Governor Linda Lingle signed a proclamation for Financial Literacy for Youth Month. Furthermore, I have been working closely with the Hawaii Council on Economic Education, which supports funding for the Triple-E. I ask unanimous consent that a support letter from the Council be printed in the RECORD following my statement. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Hawaii Council member John Knox in the letter relays a personal story about his son, who is now a history major at American University. When John's son was a senior in high school, his son told him that he was ``angry that I wasn't offered economics till this year. I feel cheated, because most of the history courses I've taken didn't talk much about economics, and now I can tell that I just wasn't getting the full story.'' We must fund the Triple-E to help to expose more students to economics and personal finance education early in their school years, before they feel cheated out of the ``full story.'' 
   Referring again to the Hawaii conference that I cosponsored with HCEE 2 weeks ago, the issues of integrative versus modular teaching in economic and personal finance education and challenges to fit these subjects within the demands of the No Child Left Behind Act were of tremendous interest and debate. One of the main strategies produced by the education discussion, which featured participants from the Federal and State Departments of Education and other interested parties in a separate breakout session, was to provide teachers with more support, such as meaningful professional development and related incentives, in order to provide them with the tools that they need to teach economics and personal finance. The Triple-E Act is a good starting point for teacher support, and it must be funded so that we can meet real needs that are faced by teachers and schools on the non-Federal levels. 
   To conclude my remarks, we all face a professional and personal calling to support economic and personal financial literacy for all Americans. Professionally, as policymakers, advocates, and educators, we want to enable individuals and families. We want to give them access to the tools and knowledge that they need to make sound financial decisions. And we want to begin that education at a young age, ideally when they are first learning the look and feel of money, or learning how to work with limited resources. Personally, each of us should be literate in this area, and try to encourage our family and friends to check their credit reports annually, understand economic trends, or increase their financial and economic literacy in other ways. 
   Funding the Triple-E is an important step in fulfilling our professional obligation to financial and economic literacy, so that we can help others to meet their personal obligations in this area, for themselves and their families. I hope that something can be worked out with the managers of the bill before us, but if we are unable to do so, I will ask for a recorded vote at that time. Again, I hope that we can work something out before that occurs. Otherwise, I urge my colleagues to support my amendment. 
   Mr. President, I yield my time. 
   Exhibit 1 
   HAWAII COUNCIL ON 
   ECONOMIC EDUCATION, 
   Honolulu, HI, July 14, 2003. Hon. DANIEL K. AKAKA, U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 
   DEAR SENATOR AKAKA: On behalf of the students and teachers in Hawaii served by the Hawaii Council on Economic Education (the Council), I am writing to express our strong support for the Excellence in Economic Education Act (EEE Act). Congress approved the EEE Act as a part of the No Child Left Behind Act, but has not yet funded this important program. The EEE Act  provides resources for teacher training, assistance to school districts looking to incorporate economics and personal finance into curricula, evaluations assessing student understanding, research, and school-based student activities. 
   The Hawaii Council on Economic Education was organized in 1965 to promote and improve the teaching of economics in Hawaii's public and private schools and increase the economic and financial literacy of Hawaii's students and residents. The Council is an independent, nonpartisan, nonprofit, 501(c)3 educational organization that focuses on the teacher as the key to Hawaii's economic literacy. Over the span of a teacher's career, he or she can influence over 3,000 students. This impact is truly significant. 
   The Council commends you on your tireless effort to educate the public and your peers on the importance of economic and financial literacy and we support your amendment to the FY 2004 Labor-HHS, and Education Appropriations bill which would fund the EEE Act, which will provide vital local, state, and national resources to boost economic and financial literacy in America. 
   Several Council Members have asked me to pass on their messages of support.  
   ``This is to encourage the Senate to accept the principles--and to fund the activities--embodied in Senator Akaka's Excellence in Economic Education Act. For more than 15 years, I have been an active volunteer and donor supporting economic education, as has my company, Alexander & Baldwin, Inc. We believe that citizens in a democracy can participate more thoughtfully in its processes if they have a basic understanding of economic principles. Regretfully, tightened local school budgets are reducing, rather than expanding, the chances for youngsters to have an early exposure to economics. Among other benefits, federal recognition and support of economic education would serve to ratify and strengthen our arguments about its value on the local level. As a former educator, Senator Akaka has a special appreciation of this need, and we urge you, his respected colleagues, to acknowledge and support his sensitivity to this issue.'' --John B. Kelley, Vice President, Investor Relations, Alexander & Baldwin, Inc., Board Member, Hawaii Council on Economic Education.  
   ``I support the inclusion of funding for the Excellence in Economic Education Act in the FY 2004 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill, S. 1356. 
   ``Economic and financial literacy are critical to the successful operation of our democracy, improving our citizens' ability to make informed choices about their own lives, as well as issues of national and international importance.'' --David McClain, Vice President for Academic Affairs, University of Hawaii System, Board Member and Former Board Chair, Hawaii Council on Economic Education.  
   ``The Money needed for economic education is critical. We have young adults graduating from high school as well as college with little, if any economic or personal finance education. They are expected to manage household budgets to include checkbook maintenance, credit management, car purchasing, house renting/buying, risk management (insurance), and much more without any formal education in these matters. The fast paced financial world facing them is daunting to say the least. Consider the credit card companies that hound us everyday to mention just one challenge. No wonder such a large percentage of our young families file for bankruptcy! 
   ``We need economics education to be required in our high schools to ensure every student has an opportunity to succeed as a money manager in their personal lives. Further, we desperately need the resources (trained teachers) to ensure these skills are taught to our youth.'' --Colonel Richard Rankin, Iolani School Teacher, Board Member, Hawaii Council on Economic Education.  
   ``I support Senator Akaka in getting more funding to promote improving the economic/business understanding of our kids in K-12 in the state of Hawaii to prepare them to enter society with an understanding of the free enterprise system as it exists in our country. 
   ``To this end I have been active in HCEE and Junior Achievement who work toward these goals. HCEE supports the Economic education of our teachers to enable them to better teach our kids. Junior Achievement provides curriculum materials and supplies volunteers to assist the teacher.'' --Will Sanburn, Board Member, Hawaii Council on Economic Education.  
   ``I am a member and past Chair of the Hawaii Council for Economic Education. However, this letter is actually written to forward to you the views of my son, Edward ``Mickey'' Knox, who is currently a history major and economics minor attending American University in Washington D.C. 
   ``When a senior at Hawaii's well-regarded Iolani private high school, he took his first economics course from retired Colonel Dick Rankin, recently recognized by the National Council on Economic Education as one of the country's top economics teachers. Mickey told me at the time that he felt a little cheated *.*.* because Colonel Rankin made him realize that all his previous American history courses had not really explained how much economics drives our political system and the course of history. 
   ``He e-mailed me to ask that this brief testimony be conveyed to the United States Congress as part of the submittal being assembled by the Hawaii Council:''  
   Before the end of high school, every child is expected to learn English, to know that subjects have predicates *.*.* Science, to know that gravity pulls *.*.* Math, to know that terms equate *.*.* and History, to know that it repeats. 
   But how can a person get a public education, graduate high school, and be a competent citizen without understanding economics? History suggests humans may even have developed math and the drive to understand other languages because market forces led them to barter with each other. Economics was the whole point! 
   When I was in high school, Col. Rankin's course opened my eyes to a new perspective on the way the world works. But that perspective should be a common one, not a secret. Please vote to appropriate funds that would encourage economic education. It is vitally important.--Edward ``Mickey'' Knox. 
 --John M. Knox, President, JMK Associates, Board Member, Hawaii Council on Economic Education.  
   As you are aware, the importance of economic and financial literacy cannot be understated. The ability to understand and make sound economic decisions is a basic survival skill that will enable students--our future employees, business people, and government leaders--to effectively cope with the economic uncertainties affecting all our lives. 
   Without a serious demonstration of support for economics and personal finance, State and local support for these real-world subjects could disappear in the face of budget cuts and new requirements under the No Child Left Behind Act. 
   Thank you for leading the charge to equip students well with the tools that they need to become heads of households, members of the workforce, entrepreneurs, business leaders, and voting citizens. 
   Sincerely, Kristine Castagnaro, 
   Executive Director,  Hawaii Council on Economic Education.  
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to speak about S.J. Res. 16, the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003, which was introduced by myself, Senators BINGAMAN, DOMENICI, and CRAIG on July 14, 2003. S.J. Res. 16 is the Bush administration's legislative proposal codifying 3 years of negotiations on title II of the Compact of Free Association between the United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI) and the Federated States of Micronesia, FSM. I have been monitoring this process very closely since negotiations began in 1999. 
   When the Senate returns after Labor Day, we have a very short window to enact this legislation, which is critical to the success of the U.S. political relationship with these two Pacific Island nations. I want to take some time to share with my colleagues the amendments that I intend to offer to ensure that the negotiated provisions remain consistent with the intent of the Compact of Free Association since its enactment in 1986 and address specific issues as they relate to the costs borne by the State of Hawaii over the past 17 years. 
   My interest in these islands first began when I was stationed there in World War II, as a soldier in the United States Army. The first island that I landed on was Enewetak, an atoll in what is now the RMI. I ended up on Saipan and Tinian where I watched the Enola Gay take off for Hiroshima. I then returned to the islands that are now the FSM and RMI as a first mate on a missionary ship and spent six months in the islands. After being elected to Congress, I continued to closely follow events in the Pacific islands and continued my relationships with many of the families in the RMI and FSM. 
   As a member of the Senate, I have been privileged to serve on the Senate Energy Committee which has jurisdiction over insular areas. I have returned to the islands on trips, often with my friend and former colleague, the former Chairman of the Energy Committee, Governor Frank Murkowski, and I have continued to meet with Pacific island government leaders. 
   I have been very interested in the negotiations which have been ongoing since 1999, not only because of the impact of the Compact of Free Association on the State of Hawaii, but because of my interest in ensuring that the United States preserves its commitment first under the U.N. Trusteeship agreement and then under the Compact to establish sovereign governments and to promote economic development and self-sufficiency. 
   I commend the chairman and ranking member of the Energy Committee, Senator DOMENICI and Senator BINGAMAN, for their efforts to expedite consideration of this legislation in the Senate, and their appreciation of what needs to be done to fulfill our responsibilities to our allies in the Freely Associated States, or FAS. 
   The Federated States of Micronesia is a group of 607 small islands in the Western Pacific about 2,500 miles southwest of Hawaii. While it has a total land area of about 270.8 square miles, the FSM occupies more than one million square miles of the Pacific Ocean. It is composed of four island states, formerly known as the Caroline  Islands--Kosrae, Pohnpei, Chuuk, and Yap. Today, the FSM Constitution provides for three branches of government--the executive, judicial and legislative branches. The President is the head of state of the national government and there are elected Governors for each of the four states. The estimated population of the FSM is 105,500. 
   The Republic of the Marshall Islands is located about 2,136 miles southwest of Hawaii and is made up of five islands and 29 atolls. While the RMI's total land area is only about 70 square miles, the RMI covers about 750,000 square miles of sea area. There are three branches of government in the RMI--the legislative, executive and judicial branches. The head of state is the President, who is elected by the legislature from its membership. The population of the RMI is approximately 56,000. 
   The Compact of Free Association may be new to some of my colleagues, particularly those who were not in Congress in 1986. The United States has a very unique relationship with the FSM, RMI, and Palau, whose Compact is not being considered for negotiation. It is unfortunate that there is some misunderstanding about the purpose and intent of the Compact of Free Association. The compact established the RMI and FSM as sovereign states that conduct their own foreign policies. Both countries were admitted to the United Nations in 1991. However, the Freely Associated States remain dependent upon the United States for military protection and economic assistance. The compact provides that the United States has the prerogative to reject the strategic use of, or military access to, the FAS by other countries, which is often referred to as the ``right of strategic denial.'' The compact also provides that the U.S. may block FAS government policies that it deems inconsistent with its duty to defend the FAS, which is referred to as the ``defense veto.'' Under the compact, the United States also has the exclusive military base rights in the FAS. In exchange, the U.S. is required to support the FAS economically, with the goal of producing self-sufficiency and FAS citizens are allowed entry into the United States as nonimmigrants for the purposes of education, medical treatment and employment. 
   As we consider S.J. Res. 16, I will be offering a number of amendments to address the sufficiency of the negotiated provisions to fulfill the U.S. commitment to assist the FSM and RMI with economic development opportunities, with the goal of self-sufficiency in 20 years. I am also working on amendments to address issues specific to the costs incurred by Hawaii during the first 17 years of the Compact of Free Association. 
   I have a tiered approach to meet these objectives. My long-term intent is to improve the education and medical infrastructure in the RMI and FSM. Economic development and self- 
   sufficiency cannot occur without the proper tools of education and health care. These improvements will take substantial investment over time. My short-term goal is to reimburse the State of Hawaii for the costs incurred by the compact. I will discuss those amendments in a few minutes. 
   Title II of the compact, Economic Relations, expired on September 30, 2001. The compact provided, however, a two-year extension if negotiations were underway. Title II expires on September 30, 2003. Title II is critical to the success of the compact as it includes all of the Federal funding for the RMI and FSM. It is my understanding that the legislative proposal contains some unilateral changes that were made to the compact without the consent of the RMI and FSM governments--we will need to examine those provisions closely. In addition, I believe we need to examine some of the immigration provisions which are included in S.J. Res. 16 to ensure that they do not circumvent the purpose of the Compact of Free Association. 
   I would now like to turn to the issue of disaster assistance. Under the current compact, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA, provided disaster relief to the communities in the FSM and RMI. In addition, FEMA provides essential services after natural disasters such as typhoons or tsunamis. Disaster assistance includes both individual grants and low-interest loans. Most, but not all, Federal assistance is in the form of low-interest loans to cover expenses not covered by State or local programs, or private insurance. Individuals who do not qualify for loans may be able to apply for a cash grant. Cash grants are also available for home repair, rental, and funeral services. 
   The public assistance grants for community infrastructure allow territorial, local, or even village-level organizations to respond to disasters, to recover from their impact, and to mitigate impact from future disasters. While these grants are aimed at governments and organizations, their final goal is to help a community and all its citizens recover from devastating natural disasters. The grant assistance, provided on a matching basis, helps toward the repair, replacement, or restoration of disaster-damaged, publicly-owned facilities. FEMA assistance is critical. In 2002, Typhoon Cha'atan hit the FSM and caused 50 deaths, injured hundreds of people, and resulted in $6 million in property damage. 
   S.J. Res. 16 removes FEMA's role in providing disaster relief, and replaces it with the U.S. Agency for International Development, Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance, OFDA. This doesn't make sense. OFDA assistance is for humanitarian relief of disasters in foreign nations, with direct provision of food and shelter, and assistance in protecting health and rebuilding water supplies. FEMA's disaster assistance, through its individual and public assistance grants, provides U.S. communities with the ability to rebuild and reinvest in their infrastructure. We have invested millions in FSM and RMI to build and protect infrastructure. These investments need to be protected to ensure that these Pacific island communities will be able to recover from natural disasters. 
   We cannot terminate FEMA's disaster assistance. We must replace USAID's OFDA with FEMA's disaster assistance programs for the amended compact, maintaining the strong and reliable service that the islands need when peoples' lives are destroyed by natural disasters. I look forward to working with my colleagues to rectify this situation. 
   As we continue assisting the FAS in building up physical infrastructure and achieving long-term self-sufficiency under a new funding mechanism, I cannot emphasize enough the urgent need to continue FAS eligibility for federal programs. It is important for us to maintain the view that such programs are complementary to the economic assistance under the compact and must continue to be open to FAS citizens if we are to succeed in allowing the FSM and RMI to fully develop. 
   Federal programs in education have been a cornerstone for FAS communities, particularly in the later years of the original compact. This was when schooling evolved away from--as noted in 1994 by an Asian Development Bank study--its use as a tool to advance the interests and objectives of colonial powers. Rather, educational content has become more appropriate to traditional education and changed the lives of many FAS citizens for the better, strongly encouraging them to actually enroll in school. 
   It is remarkable, for example, that the proportion of those who completed secondary education in the FSM almost doubled from 25 to 47 percent between 1980 and 1994. Today, the FSM Government reports that the literacy rate is quite high and all children are required to attend school at least through the eighth grade. In the RMI, elementary school enrollment increased from almost 7,400 in the late, seventies to more than 11,700 in 2000, while secondary school enrollment went from 1,430 to 2,586 in the same period. 
   It is imperative that we help to educate young generations in the FAS because those ages 15 years or younger make up nearly half of the FSM and RIM populations and will eventually become parents, workers, and government, business, and community leaders. Education is the key to a strong future for these island communities and will ensure that the U.S. investments in these populations will reap positive returns. 
   However, despite the great progress that has been made, the FAS clearly have a long way to go in improving their educational systems. This is evidenced by FAS citizens' continued migration to Hawaii and other parts of  the U.S. for educational opportunity. Even so, the Micronesians and Marshallese have taken education into their own hands and are striving mightily to attune it to the needs of their people. In this vein, Federal programs such as Head Start, title I for disadvantaged populations, the Individuals with Disabilites Education Act, IDEA, and Pell Grants have tremendously helped by empowering the FAS and providing vital resources to help them create sound education systems that serve the needs of their people. Indeed, I have been assured that without Pell Grant assistance, higher education institutions such as the College of Micronesia would be unable to continue operating. 
   Given the importance of such programs to the FAS, I am concerned about recent and ongoing efforts in the other body to limit or eliminate FAS eligibility for various education and other domestic Federal programs. I am not alone in this concern. I was pleased to join Senators DOMENICI, BINGAMAN, and CRAIG in writing on May 20 to the leaders on the HELP Committee, asking that they maintain support for the FAS through eligibility for various education programs. As we state in the letter, ``the loss of such funding could very well mean the end of education services at all age levels in the FAS.'' When we return in September, I intend to pursue this matter with my colleagues. 
   I would now like to address some compact issues specific to the State of Hawaii. Section 104(e)(1) of the Compact (Public Law 99-239) states, ``it is not the intent of the Congress to cause any adverse consequences for the United States territories and commonwealths or the State of Hawaii.'' The compact further authorizes appropriations for such sums as may be necessary to cover the costs, if any, incurred by the State of Hawaii, the territories of Guam and American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, CNMI. 
   As FAS citizens are allowed free entry into the United States as part of the compact, many FAS citizens reside in the State of Hawaii. Since 1997, when Hawaii began reporting its impact costs, the State has identified over $140 million in costs associated with FAS citizens. In 2002, the State of Hawaii expended over $32 million in assistance to FAS citizens, with the highest costs reported in education. The State of Hawaii has received a total of $6 million in compact impact aid, largely due to our efforts in the Senate and the leadership of the senior Senator from Hawaii, Mr. DAN INOUYE. This modest amount of funding, however, does not adequately reimburse the State of Hawaii for its costs over the past 17 years. 
   S.J. Res. 16 includes $15 million in mandatory funds to be distributed annually between the State of Hawaii, Guam and the CNMI for compact impact aid. While it is an improvement to have mandatory funding earmarked for compact impact aid, the amount is not based on the actual costs to the affected areas over the past 17 years. As I have just said, for 2002 alone, the State of Hawaii spent over $32 million on services for FAS citizens. I plan on offering an amendment to increase the amount of annual compact impact aid to the State of Hawaii and other affected areas. I am also drafting an amendment which would authorize reimbursement for the funds expended by the governments of the affected areas between 1986 and 2003. 
   Hawaii's medical providers have also suffered because they are owed thousands of dollars in unpaid medical bills. Some of the debt has been incurred by individuals, FAS citizens lacking financial resources--who present themselves to medical providers for treatment. Other debt, however, is a result of the medical referral program, and is to be paid by the FSM and RMI governments. The medical referral program allows FAS citizens to travel to Hawaii for medical treatment to be paid by the FSM or RMI because such treatment is not available in their country. 
   During its consideration of the original compact, Congress recognized this problem and authorized funding for unpaid debts related to the medical referral program which were incurred prior to 1985. Unfortunately, the problem has continued. Hawaii's medical providers, who are already having difficulties meeting the health care needs of their communities, are unfairly penalized because of the inability of the island governments to pay the medical bills associated with the medical referral program. I will introduce an amendment that would extend the authorization for funding for the medical referral program debts to 2003. 
   I also plan to offer amendments which would alleviate the compact's cost to the State of Hawaii by restoring and establishing the eligibility of FAS citizens for programs such as Medicaid, Food Stamps, and Temporary Assistance to Needy Families, TANF. 
   It is imperative that we restore eligibility of FAS citizens for non-emergency Medicaid. FAS citizens lost many of their public benefits as a result of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity, PRWORA, Act of 1996, including Medicaid coverage. FAS citizens were previously eligible for Medicaid as aliens permanently residing under color of law in the United States. 
   After the enactment of welfare reform, the State of Hawaii could no longer claim Federal matching funds for services rendered to FAS citizens. Since then, the State of Hawaii, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands have continued to meet the health care needs of FAS citizens. The State of Hawaii has used state resources to provide Medicaid services to FAS citizens. In 2002 alone, the State spent approximately $6.75 million to provide Medicaid services without receiving any federal matching funds. 
   There has been an increasing trend in the need for health care services among FAS citizens. During the current fiscal year, the number of individuals served in the State of Hawaii's Medicaid program has grown from 3,291 to 4,818 people based on the average monthly enrollment. This is an increase of 46 percent. For only the first half of the fiscal year, the State of Hawaii has spent $4.66 million for the Medicaid costs incurred for FAS citizens. These Medicaid costs do not reflect additional State expenditures on medical care contracts to care for the uninsured, community health care services, and for the activities of the Department of Health's Communicable Disease Branch. 
   The Federal Government must provide appropriate resources to help states meet the healthcare needs of the FAS citizens--an obligation based on a federal commitment. It is unconscionable for a state or territory to shoulder the entire financial burden of providing necessary education, medical, and social services to individuals who are residing in that state or territory when the obligation is that of the Federal Government. For that reason, I am seeking to provide reimbursement of these costs. It is time for the Federal Government to take up some of the financial responsibility that until now has been carried by the State of Hawaii, CNMI, and Guam, by restoring public benefits to FAS citizens. 
   Eligibility of FAS citizens for nonemergency Medicaid must be restored. In addition, the State of Hawaii, Guam, American Samoa, and the CNMI should be reimbursed for the Medicaid expenses of FAS citizens incurred since 1996. It is the right thing to do. 
   Continuing along the lines of assisting FAS citizens towards long-term self-sufficiency, I would now like to turn to the issue of social services. The need for support provided by a safety net of social services becomes apparent when we take a look at the economic conditions FAS citizens face at home. In 2001, per capita income, as measured by purchasing power parity, was $1,600 in the RMI and $2,000 in the FSM. This amounts to almost $8,000 below the poverty threshold per capita in the U.S. for that same year. Furthermore, many FAS families are single-parent households and face many barriers to employment, including low or no-job skills, low levels of education, and disabilities. 
   This is why it is important to provide Federal support through social service programs while continuing to develop new economic opportunities for FAS citizens. Otherwise, the impact of serving FAS citizens will continue to be felt outside of the FAS. For instance, in Hawaii, according to the state's Attorney General, financial assistance in the form of the Temporary Assistance to Other Needy Families, TAONF, program, a State program, provided $4.5  million to FAS citizens in State Fiscal year 2002. This amount is secondary only to the amount spent to provide educational services to the FAS. Of this total, $390,000 went to the General Assistance program, which supports individuals and couples with little or no income and who have a temporary, incapacitating medical condition; $532,000 supported aged, blind, and disabled FAS citizens with little or no income who are not eligible for federally-funded Supplemental Security Income SSI; and $3.6 million went to the State's TAONF program that assists other needy families who are not eligible for federal-funding under the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families, TANF, program. 
   The number of FAS citizens served by the Hawaii Department of Human Services has increased by almost 20 percent in the span of one year alone. The financial assistance that the State of Hawaii provides to FAS citizens in the form of TAONF is a great support to those families attempting to achieve economic stability. 
   I am also planning on offering an amendment to make FAS citizens eligible for the Food Stamp Program. The Food Stamp Program serves as the first line of defense against hunger. It is the cornerstone of the federal food assistance program and provides crucial support to needy households and those making the transition from welfare to work. We have partially addressed the complicated issue of alien eligibility for public benefits such as Food Stamps, but again, I must say it is just partial. Not only should all legal immigrants receive these benefits, but so too citizens of the FAS. Exclusion of FAS citizens from federal, state, or local public benefits or programs is an unintended and misguided consequence of the welfare reform law. 
   We allow certain legal immigrants eligibility in the program. Yet FAS citizens, who are not considered immigrants, but who are required to sign up for the Selective Service if they are residing in the United States, are ineligible to receive food stamps. We must correct this inequity. I will work on clarifying current law regarding FAS citizens' eligibility for various federal assistance programs, including TANF and Food Stamps. 
   In addition, I ask my colleagues to support efforts to extend current TANF state waivers and reinstate recently expired state waivers. Hawaii has been operating under a waiver approved by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services since 1996. To date, Hawaii has met all of its employment goals, despite experiencing difficult economic times in the 90s and into the current decade. This waiver maintains protections for disabled individuals, including FAS citizens, which were reported in the State Fiscal Year 2002 as numbering over 200. I am concerned that proposals that would limit various support services to this disabled population to three months would guarantee failure for many Hawaii families, including FAS citizens, should Hawaii's waiver be allowed to expire. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Finance Committee on this separate TANF reauthorization issue. 
   I cannot stress the importance of the Compact of Free Association to the Pacific islands, the State of Hawaii, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa. The United States made a commitment to help these countries attain self-sufficiency through economic development and Federal programs based on a political relationship unique to this situation. We must honor this commitment by ensuring adequate resources to meet our obligations. We cannot treat the FSM and RMI as mere allies and foreign nations--the political relationship of free association calls for more than that. We must provide Federal benefits such as Food Stamps, TANF, and Medicaid to FAS citizens residing in the U.S. We must ensure that the trust funds for each country have sufficient funding to ensure that in 20 years, the RMI and FSM will be able to function as economically independent nations. We must improve the infrastructure of the education and medical systems in the RMI and FSM to alleviate the long-term impact of the Compact on the State of Hawaii and Pacific territories. We must continue eligibility in federal education programs such as Head Start, the Individuals with Disabilities Act, Pell Grants, title I, and the No Child Left Behind Act to ensure that we equip future generations of Micronesians and Marshallese with the educational tools necessary to succeed in the 21st century. We must do all of this in a culturally sensitive manner. 
   We have a big challenge ahead of us, to keep the commitment we made in 1986. I look forward to working with all of my colleagues on this important endeavor. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President. As the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Financial Management, the Budget, and International Security, I am honored to work with my colleague Senator FITZGERALD, Chairman of the Subcommittee, to introduce the ``Department of Homeland Security Financial Accountability Act.'' 
   Our bill would add the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990 (CFO Act), P.L. 101-576. It is a companion measure to bipartisan legislation, H.R. 2886, introduced in the House on July 24, 2003. Adding DHS would ensure that Congress will have timely and accurate financial information imperative for good governance of the resources of the Department entrusted to making our homeland safe. 
   The CFO Act recognizes the responsibility of governmental agencies to be accountable to taxpayers. This bill would require the President to appoint, subject to Senate confirmation, a Chief Financial Officer for DHS, who would report directly to the Director of the Department regarding financial management matters. It also requires the DHS CFO to be a member of the CFO Council. This Council is charged with advising and coordinating the activities of its members' agencies on such matters as consolidation and modernization of financial systems, improved quality of financial information, financial data and information standards, internal controls, legislation affecting financial operations and organizations, and any other financial management matters. In addition, the bill would require the DHS CFO to prepare and provide for audit, annual financial statements that are submitted to Congress, which will aid in congressional oversight of the Department. 
   Although the DHS bill adopted by the Govermental Affairs Committee last year, S. 2452, would have put the new Department under the CFO Act, the enacted version of the bill, P.L. 107-296, did not. All other Federal departments and major agencies are under the requirements of the Act. Since the passage of the CFO Act in 1990, tremendous improvements have been made in agency financial management. For example, all CFO Act agencies, except for the Department of Defense and the Agency for International Development, achieved clean opinions from their auditors on their financial statements in fiscal year 2003. Initially, none of the agencies were able to do so. Also, the General Accounting Office has reported that the number and severity of internal control problems reported for CFO Act agencies have been significantly reduced. We expect good corporate governance from the private sector; we should also expect good governance from federal agencies. 
   Adding DHS to the CFO Act would also require that it meet the requirements of the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act of 1996 (FFMIA), P.L. 104-208, which mandates that all agencies subject to the CFO Act meet certain financial system conditions. The goal of FFMIA is for agencies to have systems that provide reliable financial information available for day-to-day management. 
   It is our responsibility to ensure the Federal Government is accountable to the American taxpayers. I am pleased to join with the Chairman of our Subcommittee to ensure that DHS has the financial management systems and practices in place to provide meaningful and timely information needed for effective and efficient management decision-making. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation Pilots Equitable Treatment Act to ensure fair treatment of commerical airline pilot retirees. This bill will lower the age requirement to receive the maximum pension benefits allowed by Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) to age 60 for pilots, who are mandated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to retire before age 65. With the airline industry experiencing severe financial distress, we need to enact this legislation to assist pilots whose companies have been or will be unable to continue their defined benefit pension plans. This bill will slightly alter Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to require the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to take into account the fact that the pilots are required to retire at the age of 60 when calculating their benefits. 
   The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation was established to ensure that workers with defined benefit pension plans are able to receive some protion of their retirement income in cases where the employer does not have enough money to pay for all of the benefits owed. After the employer proves to the PBGC that the business is financially unable to support the plan, the PBGC takes over the plan as a trustee and ensures that the current and future retirees receive their pension benefits within the legal limits. Four of the ten largest claims in PBGC's history have been for airline pension plans. Although airline employees account for only two percent of participants historically covered by PBGC, they have constituted approximately 17 percent of claims. For example, Eastern Airlines, Pan American, Trans World Airlines, and US Airways have terminated their pension plans and their retirees rely on the PBGC for their basic pension benefits. 
   The FAA requires commercial aviation pilots to retire when they reach the age of 60. Pilots are therefore denied the maximum pension benefit administered by the PBGC because they are required to retire before the age of 65. Herein lies the problem. Mr. President, if pilots want to work beyond the age 60, they have to request a waiver from the FAA. It is my understanding that the FAA does not grant many of these waivers. Therefore, most of the pilots, if not all, do not receive the maximum pension guarantee because they are forced to retire at age 60. 
   The maximum guaranteed pension at the age of 65 for plans that terminate in 2003 is $43,977.24. However, the maximum pension guarantee for a retiree is decreased if a participant retires at the age of 60 to $28,585.20. This significant reduction in benefits puts pilots in a difficult position. Their pensions have been reduced significantly and they are prohibited from reentering their profession due to the mandatory retirement age. They are unable to go back to their former jobs. 
   It is my sincere hope that existing airlines are able to maintain their pension programs and that the change this bill makes will not be needed for any additional airline pension programs. However, due to the difficult financial conditions of many or the airlines, I feel that we must enact this protective measure. My legislation ensures that pilots are able to obtain the maximum PBGC benefit without being unfairly penalized for having to retire at 60, if their pension plan is terminated. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill. I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to commend the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence for their outstanding work in reviewing the intelligence community's activities related to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. The report, which was issued jointly last week by two committees, is the culmination of the hard work of the committees and their staff to inform the American people of the weaknesses in our intelligence community that need to be strengthened to prevent this type of event from occurring again. 
   One issue that I find particularly interesting is the focus of the Intelligence Committees' report on how the lack of employees with foreign language skills hampered the intelligence community's efforts to meet its mission. Finding Six of the report states:  
   Prior to September 11, the Intelligence Community was not prepared to handle the challenge it faced in translating the volumes of foreign language counterterrorism intelligence it collected. Agencies within the Intelligence Community experienced backlogs in material awaiting translation, a shortage of language specialists and language-qualified field officers, and a readiness level of only 30 percent in the most critical terrorism-related languages used by terrorists.  
   This finding is not surprising. Shortly after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, FBI Director Robert Mueller made a public plea for speakers of Arabic and Farsi to help the FBI and national security agencies translate documents that were in U.S. possession but which were left untranslated due to a shortage of employees with proficiency in those languages. The committees' report states that prior to September 11, the Bureau's Arabic translators could not keep up with the workload. As a result, 35 percent of Arabic language materials derived from Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, FISA, collection was not reviewed or translated. If the number of Arabic speakers employed by the Bureau remained at the same level, the projected backlog would rise to 41 percent this year. 
   Unfortunately, the U.S. faces a critical shortage of language proficient professionals throughout Federal agencies. As the General Accounting Office reports, Federal agencies have shortages in translators and interpreters and an overall shortfall in the language proficiency levels needed to carry out agency missions. Further, Director of the CIA Language School has testified before the Intelligence Committees that, given the CIA's language requirements, the CIA Directorate of Operations is not fully prepared to fight a world-wide war on terrorism and at the same time carry out its traditional agent recruitment and intelligence collection mission. The Director also added that there is no strategic plan in place with regard to linguistic skills at the Agency. 
   The inability of law enforcement officers, intelligence officers, scientists, military personnel, and other Federal employees to decipher and interpret information from foreign sources, as well as interact with foreign nations, presents a threat to their mission and to the well-being of our Nation. It is crucial that we work to strengthen the language capabilities and in turn the security, of the United States. Both the GAO review and the Intelligence Committees' report demonstrate that action is needed to help Federal agencies more effectively recruit and retain highly skilled individuals for national security positions. 
   Congress has long been aware of the Federal Government's lack of skilled personnel with language proficiency. In 1958, the National Defense Education Act, NDEA, was passed in response to the Soviet Union's first space launch. We were determined to win the space race and make certain that the United States never came up short again in the areas of math, science, technology, or foreign languages. The act provided loans and fellowships to students, and funds to universities to enhance their programs and purchase necessary equipment. After the NDEA expired in the early 1960s, Congress passed the National Security Education Act in 1991, which created the National Security Education program, NSEP. This program was intended to address the lack of language expertise in the Federal Government by providing limited undergraduate scholarships and graduate fellowships for students to study foreign language and foreign area studies, and providing funds to institutions of higher learning to develop faculty expertise in the less commonly taught languages. In turn, students who receive NSEP scholarships and fellowships are required to work for an office or agency of the Federal Government in national security affairs. 
   While NSEP has been successful, it is obvious that more needs to be done. To address the Federal Government's lack of foreign language personnel, I introduced S. 589, the Homeland Security Federal Workforce Act, on March 11, 2003.  
   I am pleased to have the support of Senators DURBIN, ALLEN, VOINOVICH, WARNER, BROWNBACK, CHAMBLISS, ROCKEFELLER, and COLLINS in this effort. Our bipartisan bill would enhance the Federal Government's efforts to recruit and retain individuals possessing skills critical to preserving our national security. Through a targeted student loan repayment program and fellowships for graduate students, this legislation would help eliminate the Government's shortfall in science, mathematics, and foreign language skills. 
   I am pleased to note that the Committee on Governmental Affairs favorably reported S. 589 in June. When this bill comes before the Senate for consideration, I urge swift passage so that Federal agencies with direct responsibility for protecting our homeland have personnel with foreign language and other necessary skills to deter and prevent another terrorist attack. 
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, the national unemployment rate hit a 9-year high of 6.4 percent in June. We have lost more than 3.1 million private sector jobs since 2001, which is adversely impacting many of our recent college graduates who are finding it difficult to secure employment in a market that is not producing enough jobs. The Bureau of Labor Statistics has released findings that show for this same period that the unemployment rate for 20 to 24 year olds has risen from 7.2 percent to 10.7 percent. 
   The National Association of Colleges and Employers, which is a nonprofit association that provides resources to help career services and recruitment professionals, conducted a survey this past spring that found ``corporate hiring has fallen by 36 percent since 2001; 42 percent of employers say they are cutting the number of college graduates they hire; and nearly 71 percent of Government/nonprofit employers say they expect to hire fewer new college graduates this year.'' This information is very troubling to me because the state of our economy has restricted unemployment opportunities and exacerbated personal debt for young men and women graduating from college. 
   As our college graduates look to their future, many of them will already have accrued an excessive amount of debt ranging from student loans to credit cards. I have been working to shed light on this problem which is only getting worse, the problem of economic and personal financial illiteracy among our youth. 
   Accumulation of credit card debt by college students has become an issue nationwide. Credit cards are easy to get; many students are able to obtain a credit card by simply submitting a copy of their school identification card. They are acquiring and using credit cards at a greater rate than ever before, without completely understanding the credit system and accrued interest. Many of these students are not adequately educated about using and paying off a credit card. Rather, many are being enticed by gimmicks to apply for a credit car. A quick Internet search can reveal dozens of sites that provide myriad of opportunities for students to obtain a credit card. Some of these sites offer credit card limits of up to $5,000. Others suggest that one could use the card to purchase books, pizza and tuition, and also earn bonus points for free music CDs. Other inducements are offered, such as a free movie ticket for those who have good credit. 
   With college students finding it harder to seek gainful employment upon graduating, one would hope that they would at least have a greater understanding of how to best manage their personal finances. It would have been beneficial for these graduates to have learned the essentials of money management and personal finance before leaving college, and even before leaving high school. However, we still have much to do in this area. 
   Accordining to the 2002 National Jump$tart Survey, economic and financial literacy scores have declined since the Jump$tart Coalition for Personal Financial Literacy conducted its first survey of seniors in high school back in 1997. Of the high seniors who took the survey, 68.1 percent them failed, demonstrating a clear lack of understanding of the basic fundamentals of economics and personal financial management. 
   We have also seen an increase in personal bankruptcy filings and, if one were to couple that with the lack of jobs available for graduating students, we see that many of our students are well on the road to financial crisis, if they are not already there. Although the Department of Education has found that the default rate on student loans has decreased substantially, it has found the dollars in default remain high. This means that students defaulting on their loans have a larger debt load, which may cause them to file for bankruptcy before they even begin a career. 
   In the 2002-2003 fiscal year, American lenders made about $31 billion in consolidated student loans, averaging about $27,000 each. Furthermore, 45 percent of college students are in credit card debt, with the average debt being $3,066. Our students are accruing large amounts of debt without a clear understanding of how to manage their finances. As unemployment continues to rise and the job market remains bleak, we must empower our students with a greater understanding of economic and personal finance. Although improved financial literacy is not the complete solution to their problems, it can help them to alleviate or prevent some of the financial difficulties they may encounter. 
   As we continue to work towards economic recovery and job creation, it is imperative to also educate our children so that they may understand and excel in economic and personal finance.  
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to submit a sense of the Senate resolution that the Senate supports improving American defenses against the spread of infectious diseases from abroad. The United States and other nations have a serious global problem in confronting the natural outbreak or deliberate spread of infectious diseases. The Central Intelligence Agency's January 2000 National Intelligence Estimate, NIE, The Global Infectious Disease Threat and Its Implications for the United States found that infectious diseases are a leading cause of death worldwide and that ``New and reemerging infectious diseases will pose a rising global health threat and will complicate U.S. and global security over the next 20 years.'' 
   I have been concerned about the bioterrorist threat to this country for some time. In 2001, as chairman of the Senate Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation, and Federal Services, I chaired hearings that addressed the Nation's preparedness to respond to a bioterrorist attack. Sadly, the SARS outbreak demonstrated that naturally occurring diseases can be spread extraordinarily quickly through international air travel. This raises questions over our Nation's ability to counter a bioterrorist attack and protect our public health in general. Preparations that organize our health care network against a naturally occurring disease outbreak can also help guard Americans against a bioterrorist attack. Our first line of defense must be pushed beyond the borders of the United States to countries overseas. We should help stop the spread of a disease at its source before tens or hundreds of air-travelers inadvertently spread it around the globe. 
   The World Health Organization, WHO, World Health Report 2002 estimates that infectious diseases accounted for more than 11 million deaths in 2001. Most of these infectious disease deaths occurred in the developing world, where they imposed a terrible burden on societies whose public health systems were already stretched beyond their limits. Infectious diseases, however, pose a threat to people in all parts of the world. Diseases easily spread beyond national borders. 
   The NIE noted that many infectious diseases come from outside U.S. borders and are introduced by international travelers, immigrants, returning U.S. military personnel, or imported animals or foodstuffs. The report states the increase in international air travel and trade will ``dramatically increase the prospects,'' that infectious diseases will ``spread quickly around the globe, often in less time than the incubation period of most diseases.'' 
   Diseases that originated overseas, such as HIV/AIDS, have had a serious impact on the health and welfare of U.S. population. For example, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, CDC, since the beginning of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, there have been almost 450,000 deaths. There are an estimated 800,000 to 900,000 people currently living with human immunodeficiency virus in the United States with approximately 40,000 new human immunodeficiency virus infections occurring in the U.S. every year.  SARS and the West Nile virus have also had an impact in the United States. 
   The danger of an outbreak of a deadly disease overseas affecting the United States is increasing. The NIE found that war, natural disasters, economic collapse, and human complacency around the world are causing a breakdown in health care delivery and helping the emergence or reemergence of infectious diseases. 
   To be forewarned is to be forearmed. The early warning of a disease outbreak is key to its identification; the quick application of countermeasures; and the development of cures. The General Accounting Office, GAO, noted in its August 2001 report, Global Health: Challenges in Improving Infectious Disease Surveillance Systems, that ``disease surveillance provides national and international public health authorities with information they need to plan and manage to control these diseases.'' 
   The next disease to strike the United States, like SARS, may be an unrecognized pathogen. As of July 2003, the SARS virus has sickened more than 8,000 people, including over 35 in the United States. The disease has killed more than 800 since the outbreak began in southern China, and has had severe economic repercussions in the countries beset by the outbreak. Although the disease appears to be under control for the moment, many fear there will be resurgence of SARS in the fall when the general flu and cold season begins. We have to do a better job next time, and by helping others we will help ourselves to do so. We need to strengthen our ability to detect foreign diseases before they cross our borders. The CDC has played a significant role in foreign disease surveillance for many years. Its Field Epidemiology Training Programs is an important program that strengthens global disease surveillance by training foreign specialists in modern epidemiology. FETPs have existed for almost 20 years and involve working with ministries of health around the world and the World Health Organization. Currently FETPs are in 30 countries throughout the world, supporting disease detection efforts and providing an essential link in global surveillance. The work of the FETPs is critical to establishing a first line of defense overseas to protect the health of local populations and of American citizens from the spread of deadly infectious diseases. This work is more timely and necessary than ever. As Dr. James Hughes, Director of the National Center for Infectious Diseases at the CDC told the Governmental Affairs Committee's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations on July 30th, the lessons learned from the SARS outbreak show, ``The SARS experience reinforces the importance of global surveillance,'' as well as having prompt reporting and a strong laboratory capability. 
   We need to ensure that the CDC work in this area, which is at times heroic, is given the funding it requires. We also need to keep this question prominently on our national agenda. We need attention focused on infectious diseases on an annual basis. We need to understand better the political and economic implications of the spread of infectious diseases for foreign countries and the United States, and we need to know what are likely future trends depending on the level of intervention to address this problem. I suggest that a NIE on infectious diseases should be produced each year so that we have a comprehensive analysis of worldwide infectious disease and health developments. 
   The G-8 group of leading industrialized nations is playing a role on global health issues. At the 2003 Evian summit, the G-8 made a commitment to fight against the so-called big three diseases of AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. But the G-8 recognized the spread of SARS demonstrated ``the importance of global collaboration, including global disease surveillance.'' These words need to be backed by vigorous, coordinated actions. I urge the President to work with the G-8 to create regional FETP programs so that every part of the world can be covered by a strong public health disease surveillance system. 
   Moreover, we should support the World Health Organization, whose work provides a critical underpinning to the efforts of the global public health community. The World Health Organization's regular budget has been more or less flat since the mid-1990s in nominal terms, around $420 million a year. In real terms, some estimate this means it has been reduced by 25 percent or more. WHO receives additional extra budgetary funding of several hundred million dollars a year. But most of this is project specific and does not directly support the basic public health activities of WHO and is not a substitute for funding core WHO activities. WHO global surveillance activities have been built with very modest extra budgetary contributions on top of a modest amount of core resources. But WHO's global disease surveillance work is underfunded and is being conducted in an overall context of declining real WHO core funding. 
   The rapid and easy transport of diseases to and throughout the United States underscores that Americans are now part of a global public health system. I have been impressed by the commendable effort that the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has made to improve health in the developing world. The foundation has spent over $3 billion for this goal. Such visionary leadership should not only exist in the world of philanthropy. This country should take a stronger lead in improving public health and disease surveillance systems overseas. 
   SENATE RESOLUTION 209--RECOGNIZING AND HONORING WOODSTOCK, VERMONT, NATIVE HIRAM POWERS FOR HIS EXTRAORDINARY AND ENDURING CONTRIBUTIONS TO AMERICAN SCULPTURE 
   Mr. JEFFORDS (for himself, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. WARNER, Ms. STABENOW, and Mr. DODD) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary:  
   S. Res. 209 
   Whereas Hiram Powers is one of the preeminent artists in American sculpture;
   Whereas Hiram Powers, in the words of the director and curator of the Houston Museum of Fine Arts, was the artist who ``put American sculpture on the map,'' gaining international fame and providing unprecedented support for the notion of the United States as a country capable of producing artists equal to or better than their international counterparts;
   Whereas Powers' 1844 sculpture ``Greek Slave'' became, in the words of Powers biographer Richard Wunder, ``a telling symbol'' of freedom for Americans in the pre-Civil War years and remains unequaled in popularity among American sculptures;
   Whereas Powers' bust of President Andrew Jackson is widely considered the finest portrait ever sculpted of the president, as well as one of the noblest examples of portraiture ever created by an American sculptor;
   Whereas the Congress of the United States, in recognition of Powers' extraordinary talents, awarded him commissions to execute the statues of John Marshall, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson that stand today in the United States Capitol;
   Whereas Powers preserved through his sculpture the memory of numerous other great Americans, including George Washington, John Quincy Adams, Daniel Webster, John C. Calhoun, Martin Van Buren, and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow;
   Whereas Powers was born in 1805 in Woodstock, Vermont, and happily spent his early years in that town;
   Whereas throughout his life, Powers held sacred the memories of his childhood in Woodstock and drew upon these memories as inspiration for his work, saying, ``dreams often take me back to Woodstock and set me down upon the green hills''; and
   Whereas the citizens of Woodstock, Vermont, are preparing to celebrate the bicentennial of Hiram Powers' birth with exhibits, symposiums, and other commemorative activities: Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That the Senate recognizes and honors Woodstock, Vermont, native Hiram Powers for his extraordinary and enduring contributions to American sculpture.  
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to offer an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill to help protect our ports and coasts from fire by making a small change to criteria for spending the appropriations for the Firefighters Assistance Grants program. I thank the floor managers for their assistance and their support. 
   The amendment has the support of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The language will permit FEMA the flexibility to give fire boats equal consideration to fire trucks when awarding grants for purchases of fire vehicles under the Firefighter Assistance Grants program. 
   Ports security is critically important for Hawaii which imports 80 percent of its products. Ninety-eight percent of these products are brought to Hawaii by ship, and about half of these products come through Honolulu Harbor alone. 
   Many of the Nation's largest cities are located on the water, whether an ocean, a harbor, or a major river or lake, where thousands of people may live or visit. Suburban areas spreading out from a city can also be on the water, having marinas or piers. Commercial ports are essential to our economy. Ninety-five percent of all U.S. trade flows through the Nation's more than 400 ports. 
   In a major industrial port area having the necessary marine firefighting equipment could prevent serious consequences for the port, a State, or even the national economy. My state of Hawaii is only one example. Eighty-five percent of all refined fuel products for the North East come from Delaware River ports. If a ship were to burn and sink in the single channel serving the ports the price and distribution of petroleum products in the North East could be seriously affected. 
   The Firefighters Assistance Grants program under the U.S. Fire Administration is a major source of federal assistance to local fire departments around the Nation. It is a necessary and popular program that has distributed hundreds of millions of needed dollars to fire department nationwide. 
   Purchases of firefighting vehicles are authorized under the Firefighter Assistance Grant program. However, the U.S. Fire Administration 2003 program guidance does not encourage fire departments to submit grants for fire boats. Fire trucks are given a priority one and fire boats a priority three in the Vehicle Acquisition Program priorities for urban areas. In suburban and rural areas, fire boats are a priority four. Due to funding constraints, the program guidance notes that it is unlikely that vehicles that are not listed as priority one or priority two would be funded. 
   The Nation's fire boat resources are old and underfunded--a number of fire boats are more than 60 years old. If a fire department decides it wants a fire boat rather than a fire truck to meet its particular fire and disaster response needs it should be able to submit an application to that effect. Such an application should receive equal consideration to an application for a fire truck. 
   My amendment is revenue neutral. It does not seek to add to the $750 million appropriated for the firefighter assistance grants' program in FY 2004, although the efforts by Senator BYRD and other Senators to increase the appropriations are timely and worthwhile. Rather, the intent of my amendment to put fire boats on equal footing with fire trucks in the firefighter assistance grants program if the geograhic of a local fire department makes the acquisition of a fire boat important to their fire fighting capabilities. 
   I thank my colleagues for the time, and I look forward to the Senator's support for their amendment. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in favor of the disaster mitigation programs as funded in the fiscal year 2004 Homeland Security appropriations bill. 
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA, currently has two programs for disaster mitigation, a pre- and postdisaster program. Since 2001, the administration has sought to combine these two programs into one predisaster program. In response to the administration's initiatives, I asked the General Accounting Office, GAO, to examine the administration's proposed changes. The GAO report, released in 2002, concluded that FEMA's mitigation programs, ``differ substantially in how they have sought to reduce the risks from hazards but each has features that the State emergency management community believes has been successful for mitigation.'' 
   Congress funded both programs in fiscal year 2002 and fiscal year 2003. In addition, the Senate and House Homeland Security appropriations reports for the fiscal year 2004 Homeland Security appropriations speak highly of both programs. The Senate report noted that the committee thought the post-disaster program had been ``very successful and will continue to be a valuable tool in the disaster relief process.'' The report goes on to say the committee ``has also continued funding for the national pre-disaster mitigation fund, believing that a balance in pre- and post-disaster mitigation funds allows for greater flexibility in emergency management at the local level.'' 
   The House Appropriations Committee also reviewed the two programs favorably. The House committee report said the ``postdisaster hazard mitigation grant program is an effective mechanism to ensure mitigation activities are undertaken when the need is most apparent, which is immediately after a disaster strikes. When used in conjunction with the pre-disaster mitigation grant program, a comprehensive mitigation strategy can be accomplished.'' 
   I look forward to Congress's continued support for these two important programs. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of the Senator from Nevada, Mr. Reid, who is offering an amendment to establish $20 million in grants to protect tourist populations. This amendment will ensure that homeland security funding allocations properly reflect a State's population, including its tourist population. 
   Currently, Federal first responder funding is based on a State's permanent population. States with large tourist populations are left with the responsibility for protecting a larger number of individuals than is reflected by the funding they receive from the Federal Government. As a result, first responders in these States face severe funding shortfalls. We need to ensure that methods for allocating Federal assistance for homeland security, especially first responder funding, considers the resources needed to protect each and every individual in a State. 
   Tourists represent a significant proportion of the population in many States. This is especially true for Hawaii, where, at any given time, there are over 160,000 tourists in the State. 
   Since the current first responder grant formula does not account for tourist populations, Hawaii is responsible for protecting 13 percent of its total population without Federal assistance. 
   This funding is critical for all States with significant tourist populations. For this reason, I am pleased to have worked with Senator Collins, chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee, to include language in S. 1245, the Homeland Security Grant Enhancement Act of 2003, to ensure that tourist populations are fully addressed in first responder funding. This bill favorably passed out of committee unanimously. The Reid amendment builds on S. 1245 by providing the additional funding needed to protect tourist populations in Federal first responder funding. 
   Federal funding for homeland security should fully account for the total population in a State, including tourist populations. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the committee report to H.R. 2555, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2004, to ensure that the Department of Homeland Security fulfills it non-homeland security missions. 
   I am pleased that the committee report includes many of the same reporting requirements of non-homeland security missions at S. 910, the Non-Homeland Security Mission Performance Act of 2003, which I introduced on April 11, 2003. My bill, which is cosponsored by Senators CARPER, LAUTENBERG, and DURBIN, will guarantee the fulfillment of non-homeland security functions that Americans rely on daily. S. 910 was reported out of the Government Affairs Committee unanimously on June 13, 2003. 
   In my view, the reporting requirements in the committee report to H.R. 2555 and those in S. 910 achieve similar goals. However, I believe the reporting requirements in H.R. 2555 could be improved by including the reporting requirements in S. 910. 
   The Department of Homeland Security should indicate the management flexibilities and personnel used to carry out non-homeland security functions; clarify whether any changes are required to the department's roles, responsibilities, and organizational structure to enable it to fully accomplish its non homeland security functions; and describe the management strategy the department will use to fulfill its non-homeland security missions. 
   Moreover, the report should complement, not duplicate, existing reporting requirements the U.S. Coast Guard already provides the Department of Homeland Security Inspector General. The department should fully describe and evaluate how homeland security and non-homeland security functions will be fulfilled in government-wide performance reports to Congress, and the General Accounting Office should evaluate the extent to which the department is implementing the provisions in this bill and its non-homeland security missions generally. 
   This report should be provided annually over a five year period, and submitted to the appropriations Committees, Governmental Affairs Committee, and the Government Reform Committee. 
   The cost of creating a Department of Homeland Security should not come at the expense of essential non-homeland security missions. 
   I urge that these provisions be included to complement those in the Committee Report to H.R. 2555. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to support Senator BIDEN's amendment to the Fiscal Year 2004 State Department Authorization bill concerning sharing information about the export of small arms with the State Department office responsible for the collection and destruction of small arms. 
   In July 2001 a United Nation's conference took place on the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons. The conference adopted a program of action to eliminate these weapons. After two years, the first meeting to review progress on this program of action convened this week in New York. U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan in a message sent to the conference said, ``It is difficult to overstate the importance of implementation of the program of action.'' He noted, ``After all, small arms and light weapons cause mass destruction. They kill about 60 people an hour or half a million people a year, 90 percent of them women and children.'' 
   U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs Lincoln Bloomfield described to participants the significant contribution the United States has made in the area of destruction assistance programs. Commendably, since early 2001, U.S.-supported programs in 10 countries have led to the destruction of over 400,000 excess or illegal weapons and 44 million rounds of ammunition. 
   Senator BIDEN's amendment will add needed rationality to U.S. policy in this area. If the United States permits the export of small arms or light weapons, the office within the State Department responsible for the collection and destruction of these arms should be informed. Otherwise we may unknowingly pay states to destroy small arms at the same time that we are giving them more weapons. 
   I thank the Senator from Delaware for this amendment. It is important that the right hand of the government knows what the left hand is doing. The U.N. estimates that there are more than 500 million small arms and light weapons in the world and around half of these are illicit. We have far to go in our global effort to control and eliminate these illicit arms. Every step we can take to achieve this goal should be pursued. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I rise today to speak on S. 1, the Prescription Drug and Medicare Improvement Act of 2003. 
   For far too long Medicare has lacked a prescription drug benefit. The lack of this benefit has been the gaping hole in the Medicare safety net. Prescription drugs are the largest out-of-pocket health care cost for seniors. Many who cannot afford drug coverage often break the drugs in half, skip doses, or do not fill their prescriptions. 
   The legislation the Senate passed last night will finally establish a benefit. I supported this bill because it is  an important step forward in meeting the prescription drug needs of seniors. However, I am particularly concerned that the bill provides insufficient prescription drug coverage for seniors and depends excessively on private plans. 
   Medicare beneficiaries will experience a gap in their prescription drug coverage after their drug expenditures reach $4,500. They will not receive any benefits until their total drug expenditures reach at least $5,813 unless they qualify for the additional low-income support. This gap in coverage will occur while they are still paying premiums. It is unfortunate that amendments designed to fill in the gap were defeated. This issue must be revisited in the future. Also, the eligibility requirements for the additional low-income support are too restrictive and will deny many seniors in need the extra help that they need. 
   The dependence on private insurers to administer this benefit presents additional challenges to providing seniors with access to prescription drugs. Prescription drug-only insurance policies are currently not offered and they will need to be developed. The utilization of private plans creates a system in which insurers have incentives to limit access to needed drugs. In addition, the premiums that seniors pay for coverage are likely to vary depending on what region people live in. It is not equitable for a Federal benefit to have different prices across the country. Seniors should have the option of choosing a Medicare-administered plan instead of one that is run by a private insurer. 
   It is unfortunate that amendments to strengthen the prescription drug coverage and to provide seniors with an option to enroll in a Medicare administered plan were defeated. I look forward to continue working with my colleagues to address these important issues to improve the Medicare prescription drug benefit. 
   Again, I supported this bill because it is an important step towards providing much needed prescription drug coverage for seniors. Also, I am pleased that my amendment to restore a Medicaid disproportionate share hospital, DSH, allotment for Hawaii was adopted. This amendment is vital to Hawaii's hospitals which are struggling to meet the elevated demands placed upon them by the increasing number of uninsured patients. DSH payments will help Hawaii hospitals meet the rising health care needs of our communities. I hope that this provision is retained in conference. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise as a cosponsor of the Money Wire Improvement and Remittance Enhancement Act introduced by my colleague, Senator CORZINE. I thank Senator CORZINE for his leadership on this issue. 
   Immigrants often send a portion of their hard-earned wages to their relatives abroad. Remittances are often used to improve the standard of living of recipients by increasing access to health care, education, and essentials of daily life. In addition, remittances contribute significantly to the economic development of nations. For example, Philippines workers across the globe sent an estimated $6.4 billion back to the Philippines in 2001. 
   Despite the tremendous importance of remittances, people who send them are often unaware of the fees and exchange rates assessed in these transactions which reduce the amount of money received by their family members. Fees for sending remittances often can be ten to twenty percent of the value of the transaction. Also, the exchange rate used in the transaction can be significantly lower than the market rate. 
   Consumers and their families cannot afford to remain uninformed about their financial service options and the fees placed on their transactions. This legislation would ensure that each customer is fully informed of all of the fees and the exchange rates used in sending money. 
   I am hopeful that the enactment of this legislation will result in more people utilizing banks and credit unions for remittances because these institutions do not charge the exorbitant fees often associated with remittances processed by certain other entities. In addition, if unbanked immigrants take advantage of the remittance services offered by banks and credit unions, they will be more likely to open up an account. This would allow immigrants to take advantage of the opportunities for saving and borrowing found at mainstream financial institutions and offer them alternatives to fringe banking products, such as check cashing services. 
   The Money Wire Improvement and Remittance Enhancement Act has special significance to my home State of Hawaii. Hawaii is home to significant numbers of recent immigrants from many nations, including the Philippines, who send remittances to their relatives abroad. We must do what we can to ensure that their hard-earned dollars are not eroded by unnecessary fees or a lack of transparency regarding exchange rates. 
   I encourage my colleagues to support this much-needed legislation. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the Federal Employee Protection of Disclosures Act. I offered legislation under this title earlier this month. I am modifying that measure, S. 1229, by introducing a new bill today which is cosponsored by Senators GRASSLEY, LEVIN, LEAHY, and DURBIN. This bill, as with S. 1229, amends the Whistleblower Protection Act, WPA. These amendments are necessary to safeguard Federal employees from retaliation and protect American taxpayers from government waste, fraud, and abuse. Our bill follows S. 995 and S. 3070, the latter of which was favorably reported by the Governmental Affairs Committee in the 107th Congress. The bill we introduce today is the result of a bipartisan compromise to protect our federal whistleblowers. 
   Our bill would codify the repeated and unequivocal statements of congressional intent that Federal employees are to be protected when making ``any disclosure'' evidencing violations of law, gross mismanagement, or a gross waste of funds. The bill would also clarify the test that must be met to prove that a Federal employee reasonably believed that his or her disclosure was evidence of wrongdoing. The clear language of the WPA says that an employee is protected for disclosing information he or she reasonably believes evidences a violation. However, the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals, which has sole jurisdiction over whistleblower cases, ruled in 1999 that the reasonableness review must begin with the presumption that public officers perform their duties in good faith and that this presumption stands unless there is ``irrefragable proof'' to the contrary. As irrefragable means impossible to refute, our bill replaces this excessively high burden with the more reasonable standard of substantial evidence. 
   The measure would also provide independent litigating authority to the Office of Special Counsel, OSC. Under current law, OSC has no authority to request the Merit Systems Protection Board, MSPB, to reconsider its decision or to seek review of a MSPB decision by the Federal Circuit. The limitation undermines both OSC's ability to protect whistleblowers and the integrity of the WPA. As such, our bill would provide OSC authority to appear in any civil action brought in connection with the WPA and obtain review of any MSPB order where OSC determines MSPB erred and the case will impact the enforcement of the WPA. 
   Our bill would codify an ``anti-gag'' provision that Congress has passed annually since 1988 as part of the appropriations process. The yearly appropriations language bars agencies from implementing or enforcing any nondisclosure policy, form, or agreement that does not contain specified language preserving open government statutes. In addition, the bill would make it a prohibited personnel practice to enforce a non-disclosure agreement that does not comply with open government statutes. 
   Enactment of the Federal Employee Protection of Disclosures Act will strengthen the rights and protections afforded to federal whistleblowers and encourage the disclosure of information vital to an effective government. Following the events of September 11, we realized that whistleblowing is even more important when our national security is at stake. In many instances, the security of our Nation depends upon those who step forward to blow the whistle on significant lapses in our efforts to protect the United States against potential terrorist attacks. Congress should act quickly to assure whistleblowers that disclosing illegal activities and mismanagement within their agencies will not be met with retaliation. I urge my colleagues to join with me in protecting our federal whistleblowers. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to honor a great American hero, General Eric Shinseki, the Army's 34th Chief of Staff. General Shinseki, a native of Hawaii, attained the Army's highest position as the Army's Chief of Staff in June 1999 and retired in June 2003. 
   Ric Shinseki graduated from the United States Military Academy, West Point, in 1965. He served two combat tours in Vietnam and was wounded twice in combat. Throughout his 37 years of service to this country, he has given his personal best, serving with great pride and dignity. His legacy to this Nation will live on for years to come. 
   Over the span of his career, I've watched his progress as a soldier and was privileged to participate in his promotion ceremony to Colonel. At that time, I thought he had a stellar career as a ``soldier's soldier.'' I was very proud to witness his four years of service as the Army's Chief of Staff. He was the perfect soldier to lead our Army into the 21st century. 
   This remarkable man and distinguished decorated soldier set a new standard for the Army. With extraordinary vision, he transformed the Army into an agile, lean, flexible, and lethal fighting force. This man of honor, integrity, and courage set a higher standard for all to follow, all while embodying the spirit of aloha. With his deep sense of pride and dedication to service, he made our Army stronger, one able to achieve swift victories during Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. 
   As I quoted in the Senate Resolution, President John F. Kennedy once said, ``When at some future date the high court of history sits in judgment of each one of us--recording whether in our brief span of service we fulfilled our responsibilities, we will be measured by the answers to four questions--were we truly men of courage . . . were we truly men of judgment . . . were we truly men of integrity . . . were we truly men of dedication?'' When history looks back at the Army's 34th Chief of Staff, it will be clear that this was truly a man of courage, judgment, integrity, and dedication. 
   General Shinseki is to be commended for his patriotism, unwavering commitment to this Nation, and his meritorious service to this country.  
   SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 56--EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS THAT A COMMEMORATIVE POSTAGE STAMP SHOULD BE ISSUED HONORING GUNNERY SERGEANT JOHN BASILONE, A GREAT AMERICAN HERO 
   Mr. CORZINE (for himself, Mr. WARNER, Mr. LAUTENBERG, and Mrs. CLINTON) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Governmental Affairs: 
   S. Con. Res. 56 
   Whereas Gunnery Sergeant John Basilone was born in 1916 in Buffalo, New York, son of Salvatore and Dora Basilone, one of 10 children;
   Whereas John Basilone was raised and educated in Raritan, New Jersey;
   Whereas, at the age of 18, John Basilone enlisted in the United States Army, principally seeing garrison service in the Philippines;
   Whereas, after his honorable discharge in 1937, Sergeant Basilone, known by his comrades as ``Manila John'', returned to Raritan;
   Whereas, seeing the storm clouds of war hovering over the Nation, and believing that his place was with this country's fighting forces, Sergeant Basilone enlisted in the United States Marine Corps in July 1940;
   Whereas, on October 24 and 25, 1942, on Guadalcanal, Solomon Islands, Sergeant Basilone was a member of ``C'' Company, 1st Battalion, 7th Regiment, 1st Marine Division, and was in charge of 2 sections of heavy machine guns defending a narrow pass that led to Henderson Airfield;
   Whereas, although Sergeant Basilone and his machine gunners were vastly outnumbered and without available reinforcements, Sergeant Basilone and his fellow Marines fought valiantly to check the savage and determined assault by the Japanese Imperial Army;
   Whereas, for this action, Sergeant Basilone was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor and sent home a hero;
   Whereas, in December 1944, Sergeant Basilone's restlessness to rejoin his fellow Marines, who were fighting the bloody island-to-island battles en route to the Philippines and Japan, prompted him to volunteer again for combat;
   Whereas, on Iwo Jima, on February 19, 1945, Sergeant Basilone again distinguished himself by single-handedly destroying an enemy blockhouse while braving heavy-caliber fire;
   Whereas, minutes later, an artillery shell killed Sergeant Basilone and 4 of his platoon members;
   Whereas Sergeant Basilone was posthumously awarded the Navy Cross and Purple Heart, and a life-sized bronze statue stands in Raritan, New Jersey, where ``Manila John'' is clad in battle dress and cradles a machine gun in his arms;
   Whereas, in 1949, the United States Government commissioned a destroyer the U.S.S. Basilone, and in November 1951, Governor Alfred E. Driscoll posthumously awarded Sergeant Basilone the State of New Jersey's highest decoration;
   Whereas, following World War II, Sergeant Basilone's remains were reinterred in the Arlington National Cemetery;
   Whereas Sergeant Basilone was the first recipient of the Congressional Medal of Honor awarded in World War II;
   Whereas Sergeant Basilone was also awarded the Navy Cross and the Purple Heart, giving him the distinction of being the only enlisted Marine in World War II to receive all 3 medals; and
   Whereas commemorative postage stamps have been commissioned to honor other great heroes in American history: Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That it is the sense of Congress that--
    (1) a commemorative postage stamp should be issued by the United States Postal Service honoring Gunnery Sergeant John Basilone; and
    (2) the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee should recommend to the Postmaster General that such a stamp be issued. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise in support of my amendment to restore a Medicaid disproportionate share hospital, DSH, allotment for Hawaii. Medicaid DSH payments are designed to provide additional support to hospitals that treat large numbers of Medicaid and uninsured patients. 
   The Balanced Budget Act of 1997, BBA, created specific DSH allotments for each State based on each their actual DSH expenditures for fiscal year 1995. In 1994, the State of Hawaii implemented the QUEST demonstration program that was designed to reduce the number of uninsured and improve access to health care. The prior Medicaid DSH program was incorporated into QUEST. As a result of the demonstration program, Hawaii did not have DSH expenditures in 1995 and was not provided a DSH allotment. 
   The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 made further changes to the DSH program, which included the establishment of a flood for DSH allotments. However, States without allotments were again left out. Other States that have obtained waivers similar to Hawaii's have retained their DSH allotments. Only two States, Hawaii and Tennessee, do not have DSH allotments. 
   As currently drafted, S. 1 provides that States without DSH allotments could obtain an allotment if their waiver was terminated or removed. It is my understanding that while this language would permit an allotment for Tennessee, it would prevent Hawaii from obtaining its DSH allotment as long as the QUEST program remains in place. 
   My amendment would provide a DSH allotment to Hawaii and allow for my home State to participate in the Medicaid DSH program. This amendment is needed because many of our hospitals in Hawaii are struggling to meet the elevated demands placed upon them by the increasing number of uninsured people. DSH payments will help Hawaii hospitals meet the rising health care needs of our communities and reinforce our health care safety net. All 50 States need to have access to Medicaid DSH support. 
   My amendment is similar to language included in the Senate passed version of S. 2, the Jobs and Growth Tax Act of 2003, that would have provided assistance to low DSH States and would have provided an allotment for Hawaii. Unfortunately, the DSH provisions were not retained in the conference report. A Hawaii specific provision is necessary as we attempt to provide additional support for hospitals in low DSH States in this legislation. 
   I appreciate all of the work done by my colleague from New Mexico, Senator BINGAMAN, to provide additional support for low DSH States. I urge that my colleagues support this amendment to allow the State of Hawaii to be treated like other extremely low DSH States and finally receive a Medicaid DSH allotment. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to offer amendment No. 980 to restore Medicaid and State Children's Health Insurance Program eligibility for children and pregnant women who are citizens from the Freely Associated States and reside in the United States lawfully. The United States entered into a Compact of Free Association with the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands in 1986, and with the Republic of Palau in 1994. 
   The political relationship between the United States and the FAS is based on mutual support. In exchange for the United States having strategic denial and a defense veto over the FAS, the United States provides military and economic assistance to the RMI, FSM and Palau with the goal of assisting these countries in achieving economic self-sufficiency following the termination of their status as U.N. Trust territories. Pursuant to the Compact, FAS citizens are allowed to freely enter the United States and are not considered immigrants. 
   Legal immigrants and FAS citizens lost many of their public benefits as a result of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996. I appreciate the work done by my colleague from Florida, Senator Graham, to restore the eligibility for Medicaid and SCHIP for legal immigrants who are children and pregnant women. 
   The language that has been included in S. 1, the Prescription Drug and Medicare Improvement Act, would give States the option to provide this coverage and allow them to use Federal resources to do so. 
   However, the current text does not restore these benefits to citizens from the FAS lawfully residing in the United States. Arguably, FAS citizens have strong ties with the United States as they come from the countries that are perpetually bound to the United States in free association. 
   It is important for Congress to restore these benefits for FAS citizens that were taken away from a relatively small but important population. The Congressional Research Service estimates that 11,500 FAS citizens have migrated to the United States since the Compact was enacted. They have come to the United States to seek economic opportunity, education, and access health care. 
   The State of Hawaii, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands have supported FAS citizens with necessary health care services, but not without significant and increasing costs. The Federal Government must provide matching resources to help States meet the health care needs of FAS citizens and to meet the obligations of the Federal commitment. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this amendment to restore a portion of the benefits that were taken away from FAS citizens in 1996. 
   Mr. President, I have another amendment, amendment No. 979, to offer to S. 1. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, amendment No. 979 would ensure that the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program could not reduce the level of prescription drug coverage available to Medicare-covered Federal civilian annuitants. I thank my colleague from Maryland, Senator Mikulski, for cosponsoring the amendment. 
   I strongly support the creation of a prescription drug benefit for Medicare beneficiaries. Thirty-eight percent of Medicare beneficiaries report that they do not have prescription drug coverage. Far too many seniors are unable to afford the medications that they need, and the establishment of a prescription drug benefit will provide much needed access to medications that our seniors desperately need. 
   However, the Congressional Budget Office believes that Medicare drug coverage authorized by this bill is likely to act as an incentive for employers to drop their employer-sponsored drug benefits. An estimated 37 percent of retired workers with employer-sponsored drug benefits could lose their coverage under this bill according to CBO. I am troubled that older Americans who already have earned coverage through an employer-sponsored plan could lose their existing benefits. We have seen over the past few years that there has been a disturbing trend of reducing benefits for retirees. Creating this voluntary benefit could only accelerate this trend.  
   The intent of the legislation is to expand prescription drug coverage for seniors, not merely to shift the financial burden of existing coverage to the Federal Government. If Medicare beneficiaries lose their employer-based coverage, they may have to pay more for a Medicare drug benefit that provides less comprehensive coverage. 
   We must encourage employers to maintain their current coverage, and I will support efforts to do so. We should not shift the existing costs of prescription drug coverage to the Medicare program. If this occurs, there will be fewer resources available to pay for the medications of those who currently need insurance. 
   My amendment will ensure that present and future Federal retirees retain their current level of prescription drug coverage. They should not face a situation in which they must rely on Medicare. My amendment requires the FEHBP to preserve current-level drug coverage for Federal retirees and survivors. The Government health care plan stands as a model employer-sponsored health care plan, and my amendment protects the Nation's Federal annuitants and their survivors. Accepting this amendment sends a message to other employer-sponsored plans that the Federal Government stands behind its commitment to retired workers. 
   I ask unanimous consent that letters from the National Association of Retired Federal Employees and the National Treasury Employees Union in support of my amendment be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Downed Animal Protection Act, a bill to provide for the humane treatment, handling, and euthanasia of non-ambulatory, downed, livestock unable to stand or walk unassisted. 
   Farm animals such as cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, mules, and other equines that are too severely distressed and sick to move without assistance are often not handled humanely. Due to the extra effort and cost to individually feed and water non-ambulatory livestock, these animals routinely endure very poor conditions. In most cases, the level of suffering of downed animals is so severe that the most humane solution is to euthanize them as soon as possible. It is important to note that non-ambulatory livestock comprise a tiny fraction, less than one percent, of all animals at stockyards. 
   The humane euthanasia of non-ambulatory livestock would also protect human health. Many of the downed animals that survive in the stockyard are slaughtered for human consumption. A large majority of these non-ambulatory animals are contaminated with fecal matter, the main cause of Salmonella. U.S. citizen groups, such as the Parents of Sickened Children, have called for improved regulations to stop sickness and death from preventable diseases like Salmonella. 
   I commend responsible and conscientious livestock organizations and producers such as the United Stockyards Corporation, the Minnesota Livestock Marketing Association, the National Pork Producers Council, the Colorado Cattlemen's Association, and the Independent Cattlemen's Association of Texas for their efforts to address the issue of downed animals. However, the need for stronger legislation to ensure that non-ambulatory animals do not enter our food chain is evident, particularly with the recent discovery of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy BSE, in Canada. 
   The Downed Animal Protection Act will remove the incentive for sending non-ambulatory livestock to stockyards, thereby reducing the risk that these animals will be processed for human consumption and discouraging their inhumane treatment at farms and ranches. My bill will complement the industry's current efforts to address this problem and make the issue of downed animals a priority. 
   My legislation would set a uniform national standard, thereby removing  any unfair advantage that might result from different standards throughout the industry. Furthermore, no additional bureaucracy will be needed as a consequence of my bill because inspectors regularly visit stockyards and slaughter facilities to enforce existing regulations. Thus, the additional burden on the agency and stockyard operators will be insignificant. 
   As I stated before, this bill will stop the inhumane and improper treatment of downed animals while also helping to ensure that our food supply remains safe. I encourage my colleagues to support this important legislation. I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the Record. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President. Today I rise to introduce the Federal Employee Protection of Disclosures Act with Senators LEVIN, LEAHY, DURBIN, and DAYTON to amend the Whistleblower Protection Act, WPA. These amendments are necessary to protect Federal employees from retaliation and protect the American people from government waste, fraud, and abuse. The Federal Employee Protection of Disclosures Act builds on the foundation laid in the 107th Congress with S. 995 and S. 3070, the latter of which was favorably reported by the Governmental Affairs Committee last year. The bill also incorporates recommendations received during a hearing I chaired on similar legislation in 2001. 
   Last year, Time magazine honored Sherron Watkins, Colleen Rowley, and Cynthia Cooper as its ``persons of the year.'' These brave women are whistleblowers--Colleen Rowley is the Minneapolis FBI agent who penned the memo on the FBI headquarter's handling of the Zacarias Mousssoui case. In 2002, Ms. Rowley and the two other women went public with disclosures of mismanagement and wrongdoing within their workplaces. They captured the nation's attention and earned our respect in their roles as whistleblowers. Congress encourages Federal employees like Ms. Rowley to come forward with information of threats to public safety and health through the WPA, which has been amended twice in order to shore up congressional intent. 
   Once again, Congress must act to guarantee protections from retaliation for Federal whistleblowers. First and foremost, our bill would codify the repeated and unequivocal statements of congressional intent that Federal employees are to be protected when making ``any disclosure'' evidencing violations of law, gross mismanagement, or a gross waste of funds. The bill would also clarify the test that must be met to prove that a Federal employee reasonably believed that his or her disclosure was evidence of wrongdoing. Despite the clear language of the WPA that an employee is protected from disclosing information he or she reasonably believes evidences a violation, the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals, which has sole jurisdiction over whistleblower cases, ruled in 1999 that the reasonableness review must begin with the presumption that public officers perform their duties in good faith and that this presumption stands unless there is ``irrefragable proof'' to the contrary. By definition, irrefragable means impossible to refute. To address this unreasonable burden placed on whistleblowers, our bill would replace the ``irrefragable proof'' standard with ``substantial evidence.'' 
   The bill would provide some method of relief for those whistleblowers who face retaliation by having their security clearance removed. According to former Special Counsel Elaine Kaplan, removal of a security clearance in this manner is a way of camouflaging retaliation. To address this issue, the bill would make it a prohibited personnel practice for a manager to suspend, revoke or take other action with respect to an employee's security clearance in retaliation for whistleblowing and allow the Merit Systems Protection Board, MSPB, to review the action. Under an expedited review process, the MSPB may issue declaratory and other appropriate relief, but may not direct the President to restore a security clearance. MSPB and subsequent Congressional review of the agency's action provides sound oversight for this process without encroaching upon the President's authority in the national security arena. 
   The measure would also provide independent litigating authority to the Office of Special Counsel, OSC. Under current law, OSC has no authority to request MSPB to reconsider its decision or to seek review of a MSPB decision by the Federal Circuit. The limitation undermines both OSC's ability to protect whistleblowers and the integrity of the WPA. As such, our bill would provide OSC authority to appear in any civil action brought in connection with the WPA and obtain review of any MSPB order where OSC determines MSPB erred and the case will impact the enforcement of the WPA. The bill would also help protect the integrity of the Act by removing sole jurisdiction of such cases from the Federal Circuit and provide for review of whistleblower cases in the same manner that is afforded in Equal Employment Opportunity Commission cases. This review system is designed to address holdings by the Federal Circuit which have repeatedly ignored congressional intent. 
   Enactment of the Federal Employee Protection of Disclosures Act will strengthen the rights and protections afforded to Federal whistleblowers and encourage the disclosure of information vital to an effective government. Congress should act quickly to assure whistleblowers that disclosing illegal activities within their agencies will not be met with retaliation. I urge my colleagues to join with me in protecting the dedicated Federal employees who come forward to disclose wrongdoing to help the American people. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to submit a resolution which calls upon the Federal Government to actively pursue a unified approach to strengthen our national policy on aquaculture. The United States has allowed its seafood trade deficit to reach $7 billion by importing over 60 percent of its seafood products from foreign countries, a distressing statistic. My resolution calls for immediate action by local, State, and Federal agencies to cooperatively reduce this seafood trade deficit. The United States must step forward to meet the growing consumer demand for seafood products that are sustainable, economically viable, environmentally feasible, and culturally acceptable. In order to adequately address the seafood trade deficit, we must promote aquaculture by committing to a five fold increase in U.S. aquaculture production by the year 2025. 
   As early as 1878, Congress supported the managed production of fish in the wake of a decrease in marine fisheries off the Atlantic Coast. Almost 100 years later, our Nation made important strides to encourage U.S. aquaculture by enacting the National Aquaculture Act of 1980 to coordinate all appropriate Federal programs and policies involving aquaculture. Even though the National Aquaculture Act was reauthorized by P.L. 107-171 until the year 2007, the legislation still falls short of its goal to ensure coordination and promote a strong aquaculture industry. Producers need improved guidance to clarify and simplify regulations pertaining to siting and environmental issues, particularly for the timely development of aquaculture in offshore waters. The level of funding for research and development has been very, very low and tangible incentives for marine aquaculture have been lacking compared to those of the agriculture and fishing industries. Therefore, a new, unified Federal policy promoting aquaculture is vitally needed to transform U.S. aquaculture into a major industry. 
   The current trends in aquaculture both worldwide and in the United States necessitate prompt action by the Federal Government. The contribution of aquaculture to global supplies of fish, crustaceans, and mollusks is growing by 9.21 percent annually. But aquaculture industries in china, India, Japan, Thailand, and Indonesia have greatly surpassed the United States due in part to less expensive labor, lower property values, and weaker environmental regulations. In fact, the total value of aquaculture production is approximately $61 billion worldwide; of this, the $0.5 billion U.S. aquaculture industry is far outpaced by nations that have a 1 to 28 billion dollar value. Although U.S. aquaculture has been considered a minor industry over the years, it is rapidly becoming one of the fastest-growing industries and has vast, vast potential. The U.S. has two choices. We can either stand by and watch our seafood trade deficit grow larger than $7 billion or we can seize this opportunity to promote a strong U.S. aquaculture industry to produce healthier foods and economic benefits for our citizens. 
   U.S. aquaculture development can meet the growing consumer demand for quality seafood products and, at the same time, relieve the pressure on overfished stocks. More than one billion people currently derive at least 20 percent of their animal protein from fish, and studies have predicted that this demand for seafood will only increase over time. Meanwhile, 
   half of the world's main fish stocks are fully exploited or producing catches that have reached their maximum sustainable limits. A strong U.S. aquaculture industry will result in a net contribution to worldwide food availability, economic growth, and improved living standards. 
   In Hawaii, we are at the forefront of U.S. aquaculture through supportive research and production efforts for marine aquaculture. Hawaii first harvested offshore aquaculture products from sea cages in 1999 and the State awarded its first commercial lease for offshore aquaculture in State waters in the year 2001. The aquaculture technologies developed in Hawaii with high environmental standards can help lead the world in economically and environmentally sound aquaculture practices. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to the many individuals who have died in defense of our great Nation. Next week we will all return to our States to join our constituents in honoring those who gave their lives to ensure that we enjoy the principles of liberty and justice as Americans. 
   One of my constituents, Mr. Keith Haugen, has written a song entitled ``Walking Through the Memories, A Requiem to the Fallen.'' Mr. Haugen served in the U.S. Army and has been honored by a number of organizations for songs he has written to honor military members and veterans. Mr. Haugen will perform this song on Memorial Day at the National Memorial of the Pacific. 
   I have reviewed the lyrics to this melody and have Mr. Haugen's permission to share them with my colleagues. I ask unanimous consent to print a copy of these lyrics in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I rise today in support of the Lautenberg-Jeffords amendment to establish minimum criteria for whether an Integrated Natural Resource Management Plan or INRMP for a military installation provides sufficient protection for endangered species to make a critical habitat designation unnecessary. As I have previously stated, I commend the chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee for the manner in which he handled this difficult issue. We had two very good hearings to address the Department's proposal. 
   I am particularly appreciative that the provision in this bill takes a case-by-case approach to the Endangered Species Act instead of providing the blanket exemption sought in the administration proposal. I believe the provision fall short, however, of codifying the existing case-by-case approach. 
   During the Committee's consideration of this bill, I offered an amendment which would have codified the case-by-case approach by including minimum criteria for INRMPs on military lands. Unfortunately, my amendment was defeated. I am pleased to join Senators LAUTENBERG and JEFFORDS in this amendment which, I believe, provides the necessary criteria to be included in INRMPs for military lands in order for the Secretary of the Interior to determine that the designation of critical habitat is unnecessary. 
   As the ranking member of the Readiness Subcommittee, I remain committed to the readiness of our military through proper training. We have heard from the Joint Chiefs of Staff that our Armed Forces are more ready today than they have been before. Our military has found ways to comply with applicable laws by working with neighboring communities, state and local officials. I firmly believe that this approach provides the Department of Defense with the necessary tools and assurances it needs to conduct training activities without unnecessarily undermining environmental provisions. I urge my colleague to support this amendment. 
   I yield back the remainder of my time. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I rise today to support the amendment offered by Senators FEINSTEIN and KENNEDY to the fiscal year 2004 Defense authorization bill to strike section 3131 and to keep the prohibition on the research and development of low-yield nuclear weapons. 
   Let me explain to you and my colleagues why I am supporting this amendment. In 1993, Congress placed a prohibition on research and development that could lead to the production of new low-yield nuclear weapons that would have an explosive yield of less than 5 kilotons. I am informed that this administration has sought to eliminate this prohibition. 
   The administration's Nuclear Posture Review calls for exploring new nuclear weapons ``concepts'' to be able to attack hard and buried targets in so-called rogue nations with reduced collateral damage. 
   According to the administration, the restriction on research on low-yield nuclear weapons impedes this effort. But the existing law gives nuclear weapons laboratories sufficient room to explore new nuclear weapons concepts. Adequate research is permitted but not production. 
   However, the fiscal year 2004 authorization bill follows the administration's request and repeals the 1993 prohibition. Yet the development and production of low-yield nuclear weapons would create many problems. As I noted in my statement to the Senate on April 11, 2003, although the administration is looking to reduce collateral damage from a nuclear explosion, low-yield weapons could still cause widespread devastation if used, threatening civilian populations and U.S. forces. 
   We already have several conventional weapons that can be used to destroy or incapacitate buried bunkers. Rather than pursuing new nuclear weapons, we could devote additional resources to improving the ability of our conventional forces to render deeply buried targets inoperable. 
   Developing the new low-yield nuclear weapons could also encourage a new arms race in tactical nuclear weapons and setback U.S. nonproliferation efforts. There is already some evidence of a new action-reaction arms race cycle starting. 
   Just last Friday, Russian President Vladimir Putin told the Russian Duma in his annual address that Russia is working on a new generation of nuclear weapons. Russian military experts were quoted as saying that President Putin was probably referring to new low-yield nuclear weapons like those proposed by the administration. 
   Last month, Secretary of State Colin Powell sent a message to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty Preparatory Committee conference in Geneva in which he said the United States ``remains firmly committed to its obligations under the NPT.'' Assistant Secretary of State John Wolf outlines the steps the United States had taken to fulfill its article VI obligations to the conference. But he expressed very strong worries that the NPT regime was being weakened by nonnuclear countries covertly pursuing nuclear weapons programs. 
   The majority of the signatories to the NPT treaty agreed to its indefinite extension in 1995 on the assumption the nuclear weapons powers would continue to reduce their nuclear arsenals and ratify a Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. The administration's pursuit of new nuclear weapons makes it harder to convince the world to crack down on possible NPT violators. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote for this amendment. We should act to stop the further proliferation of nuclear weapons and prevent the start of a new mini-nuke arms race. 
   I yield back the remainder of my time. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the Fiscal Year 2004 National Defense Authorization Act. As ranking member of the Readiness Subcommittee, I have greatly enjoyed working with the new subcommittee chairman, Senator ENSIGN, and I especially appreciate the efforts that the Senator from Nevada has made to work through some of this year's very difficult issues in a balanced and fair manner. 
   The readiness subcommittee is responsible for two areas that have the potential to be extremely controversial, and I believe both have been handled well. 
   First, we spent a fair amount of time in our committee reviewing Department of Defense outsourcing policies. I continue to be troubled by the administration's insistence on outsourcing quotas, arbitrary timelines for conducting public-private competitions, and the use of direct conversions in place of competitive processes. 
   Nonetheless, I support the provision in the bill which would authorize a pilot program under which the Department of Defense could test a new approach to public-private competition. The provision would also require that any deadlines for public-private competitions conducted by the Department of Defense be based on the resources actually available to the department of conduct such competitions. I believe that this provision strikes an appropriate balance. 
   Second, our subcommittee held two hearings on environmental issues impacting military training and readiness. The administration has offered a series of legislative proposals to exempt the Department of Defense from some of our most important environmental statutes. I believe that these proposals go much farther than is needed to address the legitimate concerns of the military, and could do some real harm to the environment. 
   The bill includes one provision on these issues, which would exempt military lands from critical habitat designation if those lands are covered by an Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan, or INRMP. I am disappointed that the majority of the committee rejected my amendment to this provision, which would have established a more workable and precise test for the adequacy of INRMPs to address endangered species. Nonetheless, I appreciate the thoughtful manner in which Senator ENSIGN considered this issue and attempted to address my concerns. While I do not support the provision that was included in the bill, I believe that it is a significant improvement over the administration's proposal. 
   I also have some reservations about the reductions that we have taken in the operation and maintenance accounts, especially in the working capital funds. I am particularly concerned about the changes we have made within the Air Force working capital fund--as I understand it, the transfer of funds included in the markup package may actually create shortfalls of spare parts and harm readiness. I obviously hope that this does not come to pass, and I hope that we may be able to reverse some of these reductions as the bill progresses. 
   As always, this bill continues to support military construction and family housing needs that are so critical to quality of life for our service men and women. I believe that the package we have before us today is a positive step toward this goal. I am concerned, however, that our actions with respect to overseas facilities in particular may be out of step with ongoing initiatives by the Department of Defense. The reductions in this bill, which go beyond  those that the department itself recently proposed, undermine planned efficiencies that would improve both quality of life and training for Army forces who will remain in Germany. Currently, the department and the combatant commanders are working closely to create a comprehensive, integrated presence and basing strategy and to identify a new set of military construction requirements for the next decade. Moving forward, we must ensure that our decisions regarding military construction overseas support these future requirements so that we continue to support our servicemen and women to the best of our abilities. 
   Mr. President, I believe that the bill we have before us makes some positive steps toward improving the readiness of our Armed Forces, and I commend it to my colleagues. 
   I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to recognize our country's diverse Asian American and Pacific Islander, AAPI, population and commemorate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. I add my voice to those in the AAPI community recognizing and celebrating the unique contributions of this diverse community by submitting a resolution similar to that submitted in the other body by fellow members of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus. 
   It was more than 10 years ago when my friend and former colleague, Congressman Frank Horton of New York,  took the important step of introducing and working to pass a bill to designate each May as Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, in perpetuity. His bill eventually became Public Law 102-450 on October 23, 1992. This was a single, important step to demonstrate the support of the Congress for a community that has always been a vital part of our Nation's heritage. 
   Historians note that the first Asians or Pacific Islanders to set foot on the continental United States were Filipinos manning Spanish galleons that sought to explore the new land in the 1500s. Filipino sailors later, in the 1700s, founded the first AAPI communities in the Louisiana bayous, using names such as Manila Village and Bayou Cholas. The first Japanese arrived on May 7, 1843, and others in 1869 attempted to establish the Wakamatsu Tea and Silk Colony, in order to grow mulberries, tangerines, grapes, and tea. Chinese adventurers joined other gold-seekers in northern California in the 1800s, establishing the now-famous Chinatown in San Francisco in the 1850s, and working toward the establishment of the first transcontinental railroad--marked by Golden Spike Day, May 10, 1869. Of course, before all of this took place, the indigenous peoples most known to me, the Native Hawaiians, established a vibrant society, living and working the lands from roughly the 1200s on what was to become the 50th State in our precious Union. Prior to western contact, the Native Hawaiians lived in an advanced society steeped in science. The many other peoples in what is known now as the collective AAPI community have their own fascinating stories to tell about their first adventures and long heritage in America. 
   Advancing through history to come to the present, the AAPI community has grown so much from our years of ``firsts'' that it now numbers about 13.5 million--12.5 million Asians and almost one million Native Hawaiians or Other Pacific Islanders. Together, AAPIs make up roughly 4.7 percent of the population. Even with this growth in overall size, we have remained inclusive of our various cultures and celebrated the positives among our differences as well as lauded our similarities. Indeed, my colleagues can certainly describe their favorite Korean, Thai, or Indian restaurants, or strive to distinguish one of our many languages from another, while acknowledging the major significance we collectively assign to educational access and attainment, service to the communities we live in, and deep-rooted family values. It is also prudent to note that AAPIs together continue to strive toward eliminating civil injustice and increasing our political involvement and participation in government, while looking to care for individuals in our community who deny the stereotype of AAPIs as a ``model minority''--those who are not faring as well as others and continue to live below the poverty level or fail to reach their full potential in school or in the workforce. It is not only for AAPIs but for all of us in this great country that I firmly believe that our individual identification and knowledge of our cultures of origin strengthen us when we come together as Americans. It is out of our many, glorious parts that we come together to make one shining whole. Thus, the celebration of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month truly is about all of us. 
   I urge my colleagues to support me in this resolution. 
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to congratulate the team of students from  Kahuku High and Intermediate School of Kahuku, HI, on logging yet another bright performance for their school at the ``We the People ..... the Citizen and the Constitution'' national competition recently held here in our Nation's Capital. The team traveled over 5,000 miles to represent Hawaii in this competition, and won the Unit 3 award, ``How the Values and Principles Embodied in the Constitution Shaped American Institutions and Practices,'' for the second consecutive year. On behalf of the people of Hawaii, I am proud to congratulate the Kahuku team. 
   As my colleagues are familiar, the We the People competition, administered by the Center for Civic Education, is a comprehensive program that assists students in understanding the history and principles of the U.S. Constitution and Bill of Rights. The academic competition simulates a congressional hearing where students, acting as expert witnesses, testify before a panel of prominent professionals from across the country to demonstrate their knowledge of constitutional issues. The program provides an excellent opportunity for students to gain an appreciation of the significance of our Constitution and its place in history and our lives today. As a former teacher, it heartens me to see our young people taking interest in learning about the sacred document which we in this Chamber work to uphold and defend, every day. It is only through the understanding of our Constitution and the Bill of Rights that we are able to perpetuate the democratic foundation upon which this great Nation was built. I applaud all students who participate in this competition for their hard work and dedication to civic education. We might well have future Senators and Members of Congress who are encouraged to enter public service because of their experiences in the We the People competition. 
   I am pleased to enter the names of the Kahuku team members for the record: Adriana Alghussein, Daniel Allen, Dexter Bacon, Nicole Cameron, Ariane Cameros, Li Shieh Chen, Anthony Ching, William Ellis, Brooke Jones, Shantel Kaululaau, April Kekaula, Helene Keys, Malia Love, Leilani Miller, Andrew Savini, Jessica Schiaretti, Kristen Sickler, Bethany Smith, Ericka Staples, and Elizabeth Torres. I also take this opportunity to recognize their teacher Sandra Cashman, State Coordinator Lyla Berg, and District Coordinator Sharon Kaohi for all of their contributions in helping the Kahuku team prepare for the national competition. 
   Again, I congratulate the students and the faculty of Kahuku High and Intermediate School for their outstanding achievements. I am pleased to note that a team from this school has represented Hawaii in 9 of the past 11 national competitions. I join the people of Hawaii in expressing my pride in their impressive achievement.  
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Act of 2003. I am pleased that the Ranking Member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Senator BINGAMAN, is a cosponsor of this important legislation. Our bill will address the efforts made by the Department of Energy, DOE, to recover and dispose of thousands of domestic Greater-than-Class-C, GTCC, radiological sources. These have the highest radiation levels and, in general, pose the greatest concern in terms of being used in a so-called ``dirty bomb.'' 
   Since September 11, we have faced the possibility that a terrorist could use a dirty bomb in an attack in the United States. A dirty bomb combines conventional explosives with highly radioactive materials. When exploded, it would disperse the radioactive materials, reducing the impact from radiation. But, if set off in the downtown of a major city, it could still contaminate a wide area with radiation, cause death and destruction due to the explosion, and panic and substantial economic damage could result. It is not surprising that the Department of Homeland Security has chosen as one of its training scenarios a simulated ``dirty bomb'' attack on an American city. 
   Secretary of Energy Spencer Abraham told an International Atomic Energy Agency conference in March, ``Radioactive sources can be found all over the world, and terrorist are seeking to acquire them.'' CIA Director George Tenet told Congress in February that he was concerned about Al Qaeda's attempts to build a dirty bomb. He said, ``construction of such a device is well within Al Qaeda capabilities--if it can obtain the radiological material.'' 
   Radiological sources are used widely in industry, agriculture, medicine, and research. Appropriately, Secretary Abraham has made it priority for the Department of Energy to help other countries secure their radiological sources. But as the United States works internationally to secure dangerous radiological sources, we also must be sure our own house is in order. 
   As chairman of the International Security Subcommittee of the Senate Government Affairs Committee, I held hearings in the fall of 2001 that covered the threat posed by dirty bombs. I also requested that GAO examine U.S. efforts to secure radioactive sources within the United States. 
   GAO recently finished their inquiry, and I am sorry to report that GAO found our house is not in order. Many of you may have seen the report on NBC Nightly News last night that featured GAO's investigation. 
   GAO's report shows that not only the former Soviet Union, but also the United States does not keep track of or account for its radioactive sources in a reliable manner. There is not a precise count of GTCC sources in the United States. Some quarter to half a million are estimated to exist. Some 24,000 new GTCC sources are being produced each year. 
   A central issue is what is being done with unwanted radioactive devices. We don't have an accurate account of unwanted devices in this country, and the program for recovering and securing them is proceeding too slowly. 
   In 1985, Congress authorized DOE to provide a facility for disposing of GTCC waste, including GTCC sealed radiological sources that were no longer wanted by their owners. GAO found that after 18 years, DOE still has not developed a facility for storing GTCC wastes. 
   DOE assumes a facility for receiving GTCC sealed sources will be available by FY 2007. But DOE has not taken serious steps to insure this facility will be built. 
   Instead, DOES has an interim program for collecting and holding unwanted radiological sources. In 1999, DOE created an Off-site Source Recovery Project, or OSR, in the Office of Environmental Management for these purposes. 
   The OSR Project has recovered about 5,3000 sealed sources. Another 4,400 sources, held by 328 different owners across the United States, are known to be in need of recovery. DOE estimates a further 4,600 sources will need to be recovered by 2010, when the OSR Project is scheduled to end because the permanent storage facility should be operating. 
   Thousands more sources, however, will need to be recovered outside the OSR project once a depository opens. 
   Every State in the Union has radioactive sources that need to be recovered, according to the GAO report. States with more than a 100 sources to be recovered include Arizona, California, Illinois, Maryland, New York, and Texas. Another 25 States have between 10 and 100 sources to be recovered. 
   The GAO report notes that many of these are small sources with small amounts of radiation but hundreds are larger sources with large amounts of radioactivity. 
   Alarmingly, the question of dirty bombs aside, there are almost two nuclear bombs worth of unwanted plutonium-239 sources that DOE cannot recover because they lack storage space. GAO reports that universities that have this material want to give it up, but cannot, because the DOE does not have the space to store them. 
   We are concerned that the program to recover, secure, and store GTCC radiological sources is not receiving the  priority it deserves. The disposal of thousands of radiological sources must be addressed. But DOE will not be prepared to dispose of these sources permanently in the next seven years because DOE has not identified the type of facility or provided a cost estimate and time-line for its construction. 
   This bill will address these concerns. To insure the permanent disposal program gets the attention it needs within DOE, our legislation requires DOE to designate a responsibility entity within DOE to develop a facility for disposal of GTCC wastes. 
   It also requires the DOE to report to Congress on the current situation and future plans for the disposal of GTCC radioactive waste. After the completion of this report, the DOE must submit to Congress a report on the cost and schedule to complete an environment impact statement and record of decision on a permanent disposal facility for GTCC radioactive wastes. Finally, before the year is out, DOE must deliver to Congress a plan to provide for the short-term recovery of the GTCC radioactive waste until a permanent facility is available. 
   I am also concerned that the short-term Offsite Source Recovery Project may lack the funding required to ensure that all designated radiological sources are safety and securely recovered in a timely manner. The program apparently will be funded adequately through the end of FY04. The FY02 emergency supplemental budget provided ten millions dollars, and the President requested about two millions dollars in his FY04 budget proposal. But I caution Congress to keep an eye on this program to guarantee sufficient funds are requested in the FY05 budget when it is submitted to Congress next year. 
   Thousands of sealed sources await disposal, some requiring security measures greater than those in place at current storage sites. The problem posed by these sources will not go away by itself. Universities and industry do not have the means or facilities to secure these materials and are asking the federal government for help. 
   When the United States began non-proliferation efforts in the former Soviet Union, one of the first jobs was to begin consolidating nuclear weapons and fissile materials in secure facilities to await disposal or destruction. As Secretary Abraham has said, due to worries about terrorists acquiring dirty bombs, the DOE now is working to secure radiological sources overseas. 
   I support these efforts. The bill Senator BINGAMAN and I have introduced will give radiological sources and waste on American soil the same consideration. Collecting and securing these sources was once a matter of public safety. It is now a national security concern that deserves the attention of Congress. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President. Today I rise to pay tribute to the hard-working men and women who dedicate their lives to public service. Whether it is on the Federal, State, or local level, public servants perform essential functions that Americans rely on every day. For this reason, it is a privilege to submit a resolution to honor these employees for Public Service Recognition Week. I am delighted to be joined in this effort by Senators FITZGERALD, COLLINS, LIEBERMAN, VOINOVICH, DURBIN, COLEMAN, and LEVIN. 
   Public Service Recognition Week takes place the week of May 5, 2003. Since 1985, the first week in May showcases the talented men and women who serve America as Federal, State and local government employees. Throughout the Nation and around the world, public employees use the week to educate their fellow citizens how government serves them, and how government services make life better for all of us. 
   For example, public servants help the Nation recover from natural disasters and terrorist attacks; fight crime and fire; deliver the mail; teach our children; provide local transportation; protect the environment; fight disease and promote better health; improve the quality and safety of water and food; and defend our freedom. Since September 11, 2001, public servants at the Federal, State, and local level worked around the clock to prevent terrorist attacks and reduce our vulnerability to future attacks in addition to carrying out their other job related responsibilities. Such dedication and hard work deserve our recognition. 
   I would like to pay particular attention to the men and women who serve in our armed forces, and the civilian employees who support their missions. These employees are key to the security and defense of our Nation. From the war against terrorism to Operation Iraqi Freedom, our military and civilian support staff show courage in the face of adversity. They too are ready, willing, and able to make this a safer world. 
   While Public Service Recognition Week represents an opportunity for us to honor and celebrate the commitment of individuals who serve the needs of the Nation as government and municipal employees, it is also a time to call on a new generation of Americans to consider public service. As my colleagues know, the Federal Government is facing a crisis in its recruitment and retention efforts. The problem is so critical that the General Accounting Office, GAO, has placed the so-called `human capital crisis' on its High Risk List. According to the GAO, nearly 50 percent of the Federal workforce will be eligible to retire by 2005. Although no one knows how many will actually retire, this situation poses serious challenges for succession planning in addition to mission performance. Public Service Recognition Week provides an opportunity for individuals to gain a deeper understanding of the exciting and challenging work in the Federal Government and career opportunities available. 
   I invite my colleagues to honor the patriotic commitment to public service that our Federal employees exemplify and to join in the Federal Government's annual celebration. During the week there will be an extensive exhibit on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., showcasing many of our Federal agencies and branches of the military, as well as highlighting the services these agencies provide. In addition to the Mall exhibits, I encourage my colleagues to recognize Federal employees in their states, as well as State and local government employees, to let them know how much their work is appreciated.  
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to authorize three important water reclamation projects in the State of Hawaii. In addition, this bill increases the amount authorized for the Federal share of the activities under P.L. 106-566, the Hawaii Water Resources Act of 2000. 
   The Hawaii Water Resources Act of 2000 was an important first step in addressing Hawaii's irrigation and water delivery systems. It allowed the Bureau of Reclamation to survey irrigation and water delivery systems in Hawaii. It also instructed the Bureau to identify new opportunities for reclamation and reuse of water and wastewater for agriculture and non-agricultural purposes. In addition, the Act included Hawaii in the Bureau of Reclamation's wastewater reclamation program and extended drought relief programs to Hawaii. While this was an important beginning, more needs to be done, particularly since the Honolulu Board of Water Supply predicts that even with improved conservation methods, the island of Oahu will run out of potable water by 2018. This means that the use rate exceeds the recharge rate and Oahu residents and visitors will be ``mining'' for water. Even more disconcerting is the fact that Oahu will run out of fresh water by 2018. It is vitally important for the State of Hawaii to begin working on water reclamation projects.  
   This legislation authorizes three water reclamation projects. The first project, in Honolulu, will provide reliable potable water through resource diversification to meet existing and future demands, particularly in the Ewa area of Oahu where water demands are outpacing the availability of drinking water. The second project, in North Kona, will address the issue of effluent being discharged into a temporary disposal sump from the Kealakehe Wastewater Treatment Plant. The third project, in Lahaina, will reduce the use of potable water by extending the County of Maui's main recycled water pipeline. The legislation also authorizes an additional $1.7 million for the Bureau of Reclamation to complete its study of Hawaii's irrigation and water delivery systems. This is a challenging task as the Bureau is reviewing the water systems in the State. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this legislation which is vital to the people of Hawaii. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I rise to join my colleagues in honoring the memory of our dear friend and colleague, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan. Millie and I extend our deepest condolences and prayers to his wife Elizabeth and the Moynihan family. 
   History will remember Daniel Patrick Moynihan as one of the most prescient American voices on public policy and international relations issues for the second half of the 20th Century. As a professor, author, adviser to four Presidents, Ambassador to India, and Ambassador to the United Nations, he had a rich and distinguished career, and a tremendous impact on our Nation's public policy and foreign relations, prior to his election to the Senate. 
   In the Senate, Pat Moynihan's illustrious service to his country and to his constituents in New York for four terms in the world's greatest deliberative body gave greater truth to that appellation. Many of my colleagues have spoken of Senator Moynihan's intellect, the encyclopedic width and breadth of his knowledge on an incredible range of public policy issues--history, architecture, culture, and philosophy, to name a few. He used the power of his intellect, along with great wit and dogged persistence, to fashion a record of accomplishments in the Senate that stands as a testament to his commitment to the preservation of the  family and the welfare of children and the poor, his staunch and principled opposition to communism and totalitarianism, his dedication to civil rights, the Constitution, and the rules and traditions of the Senate, and his passion for historic preservation and architectural distinction. 
   As chairman and ranking member of several Senate committees, and frequently, as a clarion on the Senate floor, Pat Moynihan helped shape transportation policy, international trade, intelligence matters, foreign policy, and economic and fiscal affairs that strengthened our Nation and our communities. For his myriad achievements, I don't think Senator Moynihan has received the credit he deserves for his role in shaping and shepherding through the Senate President Clinton's deficit reduction and economic plan in 1993. I remember that in the midst of all the responsibilities and pressures he faced as chairman of the Finance Committee, he responded to my request to discuss a few tax issues of particular importance to Hawaii by inviting me to his office for a cordial and illuminating discussion on an array of subjects. Pat Moynihan was always generous with his time and his wisdom. He served his country and the people of New York with elan, style, and grace. He will always be remembered as the gentleman from New York. 
   We mourn for his passing from this life, but we and future generations will continue to find inspiration, guidance, and courage in the splendid legacy of public service bequeathed the Nation by this brilliant statesman and patriot. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I rise today to discuss the threat of bioterrorist attacks on American agriculture. 
   Agroterrorism is a real and continuing concern. When Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge last month raised the threat advisory level to high, he launched Operation Liberty Shield to increase security and readiness in the United States. One part of Operation Liberty Shield involved taking additional steps to guarantee our food security. The government started to inspect imported food more carefully. The U.S. Department of Agriculture, USDA, alerted the food and agricultural community to give greater care in monitoring feedlots, stockyards, processing plants, import and storage areas. 
   An ongoing outbreak of avian influenza in the Netherlands is an example of the type of crisis we might face, and the coordination that may be needed, if a terrorist launched an attack on our agriculture. More than 9 million of the estimated 100 million chickens in the Netherlands were slaughtered to prevent the disease spreading since the outbreak began in late February. Some 800 farms in the eastern Netherlands were affected. Dutch exports of fowl and poultry products were stopped. The cost so far to farmers and the government is an estimated $108 million. 
   The Dutch Government took a number of strong steps to contain the disease. The Dutch Army was called up to help. Some 100 troops joined more than 400 police and customs officers to enforce a quarantine around the epicenter of the outbreak and to keep the disease from spreading to nearby Germany and Belgium. A ban on movements of live chickens and eggs within the country was imposed in early April. This led to some inconvenience to consumers since the supply of eggs in grocery stores was limited. 
   A coordinated attack by terrorists on some of our leading chicken producing states, for example, Georgia, Arkansas, Alabama and North Carolina, with an impact equivalent to the natural outbreak in the Netherlands would have serious consequences. 
   Egg and chicken production in the United States is a $20 billion plus a year industry. Another $10 billion is spent on processing and getting the chicken and eggs to market. We export more than a billion dollars of chicken products a year. Some 30,000 farm families are involved in raising chickens. Three hundred thousand people work in processing and transporting chickens for market. 
   On any given day there are some 1.5 billion chickens sitting in chicken coops in the United States. Over a hundred million birds might have to be slaughtered. If there was a ban on shipment of chickens and eggs, not only would chicken producers suffer, so would related industries. The trucking industry, food processing industry, food retailers, and those involved in exporting chicken products abroad would all feel the impact. Billions of dollars in losses could result. The impact on farm families and employment could be substantial. 
   Of course, my concern about agroterrorism is not limited to the poultry industry. Agriculture and related industries, such as food processing, manufacturing, and transportation, account for approximately 13 percent of the U.S. gross domestic product and nearly 17 percent of domestic employment. The deliberate and coordinated spread of livestock or crop diseases could have a devastating effect on our nation. 
   USDA is the lead authority in responding to agricultural emergencies. It has taken several steps to improve our ability to counter a terrorist attack upon our nation's agriculture. USDA has created a homeland defense council and increased border inspection and research activities. USDA's overall activities, and actions in support of Operation Liberty, are commendable. But we need to do more to prepare ourselves. 
   Responding to an agroterrorist attack will require coordinated efforts by  the USDA, and other federal agencies. The Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA, the Department of Homeland Security, DHS, the Environmental Protection Agency, EPA, and the Departments of Health and Human Services, HHS, Defense, Transportation, and Justice will all have a role to play. In addition, these agencies must coordinate with states, localities and farmers and ranchers. 
   In February, I introduced the Agriculture Security Assistance Act, S. 427, and the Agriculture Security Preparedness Act, S. 430. The purpose of this legislation is to encourage additional and improved coordination and preparedness on the federal, state, regional, and local level. 
   The Agriculture Security Assistance Act, S. 427, will assist States and communities preparing for and responding to threats to the Nation's agriculture. My bill aims to improve our detection and response capabilities so they are rapid and swift enough to contain the spread of a disease. S. 427 directs USDA to work with each State to develop and implement response plans. The legislation establishes grant programs for communities and States to incorporate modeling and geographic information systems into planning and response activities. This funding also will help animal health professionals participate in community emergency planning activities and assist farmers and ranchers in strengthening the biosecurity measures on their own property. 
   The Agriculture Security Preparedness Act, S. 430, will enhance agricultural biosecurity by strengthening interagency and international coordination. The Act will establish senior level liaisons in DHS and HHS to coordinate with USDA on agricultural disease emergency management and response. This bill will task DHS and USDA to work with the Department of Transportation to address one of the largest risk factors in controlling the spread of a plant or animal disease: the movement of animals, plants, and people between and around farms. 
   Although our ability to respond to an agroterrorism attack is improving, there is still much more that could and should be done. The bills I have introduced will take the necessary steps to further enhance the actions already taken to improve agricultural security in the United States. I look forward to the Senate's support for these important bills. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I rise today to discuss the myth and dangers posed by the nuclear earth penetrating weapons proposed by the Bush administration. 
   The administration suggests that new nuclear weapons could be needed to destroy a growing number of hard and deeply buried targets, HDBT. The Intelligence Community has estimated that there are over 10,000 potential HDBTs worldwide. Many of these are near the surface, serve tactical roles, and can be attacked with conventional weapons. But some hundreds of these targets have stronger concrete reenforcement, or are buried at great depths, or are in tunnels. They play a strategic role, protecting senior leaders, command and control centers, or stored weapons of mass destruction. Of particular concern are the very hardened or deeply buried HDBTs located in so-called rogue nations 
   To attack the most deeply buried structures, the administration would like to have a nuclear weapon that could destroy a bunker some 300 meters, or about 1,000 feet, underground without causing substantial ``collateral damage.'' The administration is proposing to explore two new nuclear weapons for attacking this category of targets. The first is the so-called Robust Nuclear Earth Penetrator, or RNEP for short. The second is a new class of low-yield nuclear warheads. 
   These two initiatives are often confused in the press or thought to be different versions of a mini-nuke bunker-busting nuclear weapon. The two candidates being considered by the administration for modification into a RNEP, the B61 and B83 bombs, have been in the U.S. arsenal for a number of years. They are not, however, low-yield weapons. In fact, they have yields in the tens of kilotons to megaton range. 
   Due to congressional concerns, the fiscal year 2003 Defense authorization bill required the Department of Defense to deliver to the Armed Services Committees of both Chambers a report on the need for an RNEP before funds could be spent on the program. On March 19, 2003, the administration delivered the report. After a 30-day waiting period, the administration has said it will begin to study whether the B61 or B83 bombs can be modified into a RNEP. The administration plans to spend some $15 million on this work in fiscal year 2004, and the study could cost as much as $46 million. 
   As for low-yield nuclear weapons, these are nuclear weapons with an explosive yield of less than 5 kilotons. Ten years ago, Congress placed a prohibition on ``research and development'' that could lead to the production of a new low-yield nuclear weapon in the fiscal year 1994 Defense Authorization Act. In the early 1990s, advocates of low-yield weapons claimed that precision strikes with such weapons could be used to attack weapons of mass destruction in third-world states that had acquired them. Congress was concerned that the development of such weapons would send the wrong message about the U.S. commitment to nonproliferation. In addition, there were fears that if such weapons were developed, the firewall between nuclear and conventional weapons would be removed. 
   The administration now seeks to remove the prohibition on research on low-yield weapons research. The administration's Nuclear Posture Review calls for exploring new nuclear weapons ``concepts'' to be able to attack HDBTs with reduced collateral damage. According to the administration, the congressional restriction on research on low-yield nuclear weapons ``impedes this effort.'' 
   Ignoring the policy implications of making a nuclear weapon an acceptable tool to be used like a conventional weapon, there is still the critical question of whether such a weapon could destroy a deeply buried target without massive collateral damage. Could a weapon burrow so deep that its nuclear explosion could be safely contained within the Earth? The short answer to this question is no. 
   To be a bunker buster, the weapon design must protect the warhead and associated electronics while it tunnels into the ground. This severely limits the missile to smaller impact velocities, which, in turn, severely limits how far down it can go. In fact, limits on material strengths make 50 feet about the maximum depth to which a missile could penetrate into dry rocky soil while maintaining its integrity until the warhead detonates. 
   The radioactive fallout from a nuclear weapon detonated at a maximum depth of 50 feet could not be contained. Even a low-yield nuclear weapon of 0.1 kiloton, according to Princeton physicist Robert Nelson, must penetrate about 230 feet underground for the explosion to be fully contained. Based on the experience of U.S. underground tests at the Nevada Test Site, a 5-kiloton explosive has to be buried at least 650 feet to be fully contained. A 100-kiloton explosive must be at least 1,300 feet deep. 
   To comprehend what would happen if a nuclear bunker-busting weapon were used, consider the damage that would result from the use of a ``low-yield'' 1-kiloton warhead. Such a weapon would be one-thirteenth the size of the atomic bomb dropped over Hiroshima, and of a size that may be pursued if the congressional prohibition on research on low-yield weapons is removed. At the maximum depth possible of 20 to 50 feet, a 1-kiloton warhead would eject more than 1 million cubic feet of radioactive debris from a crater bigger than a football field. If such low-yield weapon were used to attack a HDBT in or near a city, it could devastate the area. There would be major collateral damage because the ejected radioactive debris would create a lethal gamma-radiation field over a large area. 
   For the shock of a nuclear explosion to reach a hardened target at 1,000 feet, a much larger warhead would be required, like the B61 and B83 bombs being considered for the RNEP. But the B61 and B83 bombs would dig a much larger crater and create a substantially larger amount of radioactive debris, causing that much more radioactive fallout and devastation. 
   I also am concerned about the logistical problems of using nuclear weapons in a combat setting. Destroying bunkers requires knowing exactly where they are and delivering a weapon with precision and accuracy. During Operation Enduring Freedom, American Special Forces were used as spotters on the ground near the targets to provide the intelligence necessary to strike suspected al-Qaida command bunkers and weapon depots. Our Special Forces would be in great danger if on-the-ground spotting were required for nuclear bunker busters. 
   As we have seen in our efforts to target Saddam Hussein, his bunker complexes are often located inside Baghdad. Leaders of other ``rogue states'' can be expected to construct their command and control centers inside their capital cities too. The potential for collateral damage to our troops and the public our forces are liberating are obvious. 
   Another consideration is battlefield assessment. Some bomb damage assessment can be done from the air, but if a closer look is needed, how soon could troops be sent in to determine if the strike was successful? The answer depends on the importance we place on the safety and health of our forces. If we use the underground Nevada Test Site as one real-world example, it will be a very long time. If battle planners need assessment more quickly, or we need to recover evidence of what was contained in a bunker, then American soldiers and marines will be put at risk.  
   This is not a theoretical consideration. We are discussing DNA testing of bodies found in Iraq to determine if they are in fact Saddam Hussein, his sons, or his closest associates. Had the administration used a nuclear weapon to destroy Saddam Hussein's command bunker, this task would be infinitely more difficult, and more dangerous. 
   I appreciate the challenge that deeply hardened bunkers pose. I am not convinced that RNEP or low-yield nuclear weapons are the answer. Indeed, the Pentagon already has a number of conventional weapons capable of destroying hardened targets buried at 50 feet, or putting them out of action by blocking entrances and exits. Moreover, ADM James Ellis, Commander-in-Chief of U.S. STRATCOM, recently told Congress that he plans to emphasize conventional options in STRATCOM's new global strike mission in order to reduce U.S. reliance on nuclear weapons. Research and development have improved the precision, penetrating capability, and explosive power of conventional weapons dramatically over the last decade. Further research and development on conventional weapons to attack buried and hardened targets are underway. 
   Sometimes, the simplest solution is the correct one. We do not need a nuclear weapon to destroy a tunnel entrance or a mineshaft. The same research in material science and precision guidance that will allow a missile to aim and protect the warhead to penetrate farther should be applied to conventional bunker busters. Conventional bunker busters could meet the challenge of threatening the several hundred most hardened and deep targets in question. Conventional bunker busters would not place civilian populations or our forces at undue risk and harm, and would keep the barrier between nuclear and conventional weapons high and wide. 
   Finally, we must keep in mind the serious international implications of the administration's pursuit of new nuclear weapons designs. Russian nuclear weapons designers have advocated new generations of more usable nuclear weapons. If the United States starts down this path, Russia will be encouraged to do the same. If Russia begins, maybe China will too. A new arms race in supposedly low-yield and ``usable'' nuclear weapons will result. If NATO forces move farther east, Russia may deploy such weapons opposite NATO forces. China may view them as usable in crisis with Taiwan. We should stop this new tactical nuclear arms race before it starts. We should not develop the RNEP. We should keep the prohibition on research on the low-yield nuclear weapons. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I rise today to introduce legislation to preserve important non-homeland security missions in the Department of Homeland Security. I am pleased to be joined by the Senator from Delaware, Senator Carper, and the Senator from New Jersey, Senator Lautenberg, in this effort to guarantee the fulfillment of non-homeland security functions Americans rely on daily. 
   Many of these non-homeland security functions are especially important to the State of Hawaii. The Coast Guard provides essential search and rescue, fisheries enforcement, and protection of our coastline. The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service protects the State's fragile ecosystem from invasive species. The Federal Emergency Management Agency assists municipalities in reducing the destructive effects of natural disasters, such as floods, hurricanes, and tidal waves. 
   To preserve these vital functions, the ``Non-Homeland Security Mission Performance Act of 2003'' would require the Department of Homeland Security to identify and report to Congress on the resources, personnel, and capabilities used to perform non-homeland security functions, as well as the management strategy needed to carry out these missions. 
   The measure would require the Department to include information on the performance of these functions in its annual performance report. Our legislation also calls for a General Accounting Office, GAO, evaluation of the performance of essential non-homeland security missions. 
   The establishment of the Department of Homeland Security created additional management challenges and has fueled growing concerns that the performance of core, non-homeland security functions will slip through the cracks. Just last week, the GAO testified before the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure that  the Coast Guard has experienced a substantial decline in the amount of time spent on core missions. Moreover, GAO found that the Coast Guard lacks the resources to reverse this trend. Coast Guard Commandant Thomas H. Collins is quoted as saying that his agency has more business than it has resources and is challenged like never before to do all that America wants it to do. 
   These same concerns extend to the entire Department of Homeland Security. The Department of Homeland Security's Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration services provides asylum for refugees and helps immigrants become American citizens. The Customs Service protects and monitors foreign trade so essential for a healthy American economy. And the Secret Service protects and monitors against identity theft, counterfeiting, and other financial crimes. 
   In fact, the General Accounting Office has added the transformation of and implementation of the Department to the GAO High Risk list, partially as the result of existing management challenges to fulfill non-homeland security missions. 
   The cost of creating a Department of Homeland Security should not come at the expense of these essential missions. Agencies should strike the proper balance between new homeland security responsibilities and their critical non-homeland security missions. Enhancing traditional missions also enhances domestic security which depends on sound management strategies that ensure adequate resources and personnel. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the ``Non-Homeland Security Mission Performance Act of 2003.'' Our bill takes important steps to ensure that Americans will not see a decline in non-homeland security services as a result of the creation of the Department of Homeland Security. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am pleased to join Senators SCHUMER, CLINTON, and MIKULSKI in offering this amendment that addresses funding shortfalls for the Federal, State, and local first responders who are on the front lines of the war on terrorism. I  am disappointed that since 9/11, the administration has failed to provide adequate funding for local governments to prepare for the possibility of new terrorist attacks. 
   This funding is critically important to Hawaii. The Hawaii State Civil Defense estimates that a response to a weapons of mass destruction attack would challenge the State's emergency response system. As with all States, in the event of a terrorist attack, Hawaii would rely on Federal, State, and local officials. However, unlike all States but Alaska, external assistance from the U.S. mainland is not immediately available. Hawaii's geographic location makes mutual aid from mainland States or from other Pacific jurisdictions impossible. 
   As a result, Hawaii's State Civil Defense estimates that each of the State's four counties need the capability to sustain an effective response to any weapons of mass destruction attack for up to 72 hours. 
   Independent experts and government officials have repeatedly warned that first responders do not have sufficient resources. A Council on Foreign Relations Task Force Report entitled ``America--Still Unprepared, Still in Danger'' concluded that first responders are not prepared for a weapons of mass destruction attack. According to the same report, first responders lack the training and equipment to protect themselves and the public in an emergency and do not have radios that can communicate with one another. In fact, the National Fire Protection Association estimates that only one-quarter of the Nation's fire departments have equipment to communicate with State and Federal emergency officials. 
   Our amendment takes important steps to respond to funding shortfalls by providing $4.3 billion for first responders, including $3 billion for State and local first responders. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I join my colleagues on the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources in clarifying the portrayal of the military contributions of three island nations with which the United States has a unique political relationship referred to as free association: the Republic of the Marshall Islands, RMI, Federated States of Micronesia, FSM, and Palau. Last week an article in The Washington Post entitled ``White House Notebook: Many Willing, But Few Are Able'' referenced the military contributions of the Freely Associated States, FAS, in a droll and flippant manner. Regrettably, this poorly researched attempt at wit missed its mark. I want to set the record straight. 
   The Compact of Free Association between the United States and these strategic Pacific island nations serves our national security interests in the Pacific region by providing the U.S.  strategic denial in the region. While title I of the Compact of Free Association recognizes that the peoples of the FSM and RMI are self-governing and retain authority over their internal affairs, it mandates consultation with the United States on any defense and security matters. In addition, FAS citizens may volunteer in the U.S. Armed Forces, and FAS citizens who reside in the U.S. under the compact's provisions are subject to our Selective Service laws, and in the event of the return of conscription, could be drafted for military duty. 
   There are hundreds of FAS citizens currently serving in the U.S. military, including a number of soldiers assigned to the 101st Airborne Division and 3rd Infantry Division, Mechanized, currently deployed to Kuwait and Iraq in support of our military efforts. FAS citizens have served in the U.S. military for decades, and have participated in combat in every major U.S. engagement since the Korean war. Given the small populations of the island nations, almost every citizen has a relative or friend currently serving in the U.S. military, including FSM President Leo Falcam, whose son is a lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Marine Corps. 
   I have worked with FAS citizens for a number of years. I have visited these islands and have worked with my colleagues to successfully accomplish the goals of the Compact of Free Association. I applaud the patriotism of these soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines, as well as their families, who are volunteering to defend our great Nation. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, it is with great sadness that I rise today to inform my colleagues of the passing of a great leader in the Pacific Islands, Gov. Tauese Pita Fiti Sunia, who died on Wednesday, March 26, 2003, en route to Honolulu from Apia, Samoa. Governor Sunia was a dear friend and Millie and I join the people of Samoa, Hawaii's Samoan community, and Samoans throughout the United States in sending our deepest sympathy and condolences to his wife Fagaoalii Satele Sunia, as well as his family, including his 10 children, and many grandchildren. 
   Governor Sunia was an educator. He earned a master's degree in educational administration from the University of Hawaii, and spent many years as a teacher, educational television instructor, and administrator. Governor Sunia also served as vice president of the American Samoa Community College and territorial director of Education. One of his top priorities was to make sure that every child in Samoa was computer literate, and he worked hard towards his goal of ensuring that every school in American Samoa had a computer room with Internet access. 
   I had the pleasure of meeting and visiting with Governor Sunia on a number of occasions during his visits to Washington, DC, and Honolulu, and during my visits to American Samoa. He was an immensely engaging and congenial man, and our official meetings frequently departed from the agenda to discussions of Polynesian history, anthropology, and the Native Hawaiian and Samoan cultures. In 1997, Senator Frank Murkowski, who was chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and I visited American Samoa. We met with Governor Sunia and heard about his efforts to bring economic development and opportunities to Samoa. We were able to exchange ideas and assist him at the Federal level to bolster the local economy. Whether the issue was economic development, local agriculture, or educational opportunities for Samoan youth, Governor Sunia worked hard on behalf of the people of American Samoa. He understood the importance of balancing the preservation of culture with maximizing opportunities for American Samoa in today's global economy. 
   Governor Sunia was well respected not only in American Samoa, but in the Pacific Basin. He was also a man with a strong and abiding faith. He was deacon, vice chairman, and chairman of the Congregational Christian Church in American Samoa, and worked for both the spiritual and temporal well-being of the Samoan people. He cared deeply for all Pacific islanders, and we will all truly miss him. Well done, good and faithful servant. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am pleased to join Senator Domenici, Chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and my colleagues Senator Lieberman, Senator Kyl, Senator Reid, Senator Bayh, and Senator Inouye, in introducing legislation that affirms the priority and importance of hydrogen programs in Federal research and development initiatives and charts a course of action toward the ``hydrogen economy.'' The legislation reauthorizes the hydrogen programs in the Department of Energy and strengthens the Federal interagency effort to promote hydrogen research and development programs. It establishes a new program to demonstrate hydrogen technologies and their integration with fuel cells at Federal, State, and local government facilities. 
   Growing numbers of my colleagues in the Senate and in the House have indicated their interest in and commitment to promoting a hydrogen economy for the future. This commitment comes from a substantial legacy in the House and the Senate. This bill carries the names of two former Congressmen--the late George E. Brown, Jr., and Robert S. Walker--to honor their formidable and dedicated advocacy of hydrogen as a fuel source. In the Senate, my predecessor, Senator Spark Matsunaga, created the first formal hydrogen research program in this country, designed to accelerate development of a domestic capability to produce an economically renewable energy source. He introduced legislation in 1982 and his perseverance led to the Matsunaga Hydrogen Act, enacted in 1990 shortly after his death. When I succeeded Spark in the Senate, I took up the cause of hydrogen and continue to believe that it is one of our best hopes for independence from fossil fuels. 
   The Hydrogen Future Act of 1996, which followed the Matsunaga Hydrogen Act, expanded the research, development, and demonstration program. It authorized activities leading to production, storage, transformation, and use of hydrogen for industrial, residential, transportation, and utility applications. It has enjoyed bipartisan support in Congress. 
   More recently in the 107th Congress, I have worked closely with Senator Harkin and my colleagues on the Energy Committee to reauthorize the Hydrogen Future Act. We were able to include it in the Energy Policy Act of 2002, the comprehensive energy policy bill considered by the Senate during the spring of 2002. While the Senate and House were unable to come to agreement on the omnibus bill itself, progress was made on the research and development provisions, including hydrogen. I am pleased that many of my colleagues have begun to recognize the potential of hydrogen as a clean source of energy. I expect the numbers will only increase. 
   You may well ask, ``Why do we need the Hydrogen Future Act of 2003 when we have the President's initiatives for hydrogen?'' Because we need to reauthorize the underlying Federal framework for the direction of and investment in hydrogen research and development. The authorization for the program expired at the end of calendar year 2001. While I share the President's enthusiasm for hydrogen, I believe we must provide a robust legislative foundation for research and development involving hydrogen--for fuel cells, for demonstration projects at Government facilities, stationary and mobile projects, and near- and short-term goals, as well as long-term goals. The Hydrogen Future Act of 2003 reauthorizes and improves this strong foundation. I like to call my bill a ``workhorse'' bill. It is not fancy, but we need it and it gets the job done. 
   The bill highlights hydrogen's potential as an efficient and environmentally friendly source of energy. It emphasizes the need for strong partnerships between the Federal Government, industry, and academia; and it underscores the importance of hydrogen research. The bill also encourages private sector investment and cost sharing for the development of hydrogen as an energy source. These basic steps will move hydrogen closer to being a fuel we can rely on in many different aspects of our lives. 
   In these days of soaring energy prices, oil cartels, air pollution, global climate change and greenhouse gases, hydrogen is a dazzling alternative. We can have a zero-pollution fuel. It can be produced domestically, ending our dependence on foreign oil. The question is not whether there will be a hydrogen age but when. 
   Hydrogen as a fuel can help us resolve our energy problems and satisfy much of the world's energy needs. I am convinced that sometime in the 21st century, hydrogen will join electricity as one of our Nation's primary energy carriers, and hydrogen will ultimately be produced from renewable sources. 
   In the next twenty years, increasing concerns about global climate change and energy security will help bring about the penetration of hydrogen in several niche markets. The growth of fuel cell technology will allow the introduction of hydrogen in both the transportation and electricity sectors. I realize that fossil fuels are and will continue to be a significant long-term transitional resource as we move toward renewables. I am optimistic, however, that in my lifetime I will be able to see hospitals, homes, military bases and cars running on locally-produced sources of hydrogen. 
   Clearly, this is a long-term vision for hydrogen energy as a renewable resource. Progress on 
   hydrogen technology is being made, and challenges and barriers are being surmounted, at an accelerating pace on a global scale. According to the Japanese Automobile Manufacturers Association, Toyota and Honda will sell or lease fuel cell vehicles in the U.S. and Japan this year. Ford Motor Company is now showing its new hydrogen powered prototype, the Ford Model U. Fuel cells for distributed stationary power are being commercialized and installed in various locations in the United States and worldwide. General Motors recently unveiled a stationary, hydrogen-powered generator that could be used to provide energy for homes and businesses. Transit bus demonstrations are underway in the U.S. and Europe. The Nation's capital city, Washington, DC, is one of the cities participating in the project. 
   We are all familiar with Iceland's far-sighted bid to become the world's first hydrogen-based economy. It has already made great strides in using renewable resources for its heating and electricity needs. The Nation is committed to transforming its remaining fossil fuel-based transportation sector, and its economically important fishing fleet, to hydrogen power. Iceland will have no need to import oil. Now there is a revolutionary thought! 
   Closer to home, I am particularly pleased that the State of Hawaii is taking the lead in ushering in the hydrogen era. The State has identified hydrogen-based renewable fuels, and the jobs it can create, as a high priority, high-tech opportunity that can jump-start and diversify our economy. The  cost of electricity and gasoline in Hawaii are important incentives for finding cheaper, home-grown power. The Hawaii Natural Energy Institute of the University of Hawaii concluded that large-scale hydrogen use for transportation can be competitive this decade. 
   I am particularly pleased with the public-private partnership between the University of Hawaii's Natural Energy Institute, the Naval Research Laboratory, United Technologies Fuel Cells, and Hawaiian Electric Company. In January 2002, the Institute announced a partnership with the Department of Defense to establish a hydrogen fuel cell test facility in Honolulu. The facility will house up to eight state-of-the art fuel cell test stands and related operations supporting fuel cell development. The Institute has made Hawaii a leader in the development and testing of advanced fuel cell systems and fuels processing. 
   In California, the State's zero emissions vehicle requirements favor early introduction of hydrogen-powered vehicles. The city of Richmond, CA, opened the area's first hydrogen fueling station in October, 2002. The hydrogen fueling station looks like a gasoline pump, and can supply the daily fueling needs of a small fleet of vehicles at a fueling rate of one to two minutes per vehicle. These are important initiatives and illustrate the value of public-private partnerships along the pathway to a different energy source that requires an entirely different infrastructure. 
   Despite the progress, problems and challenges remain. First, hydrogen production costs from fossil and renewable energy sources remain high. Second, attractive low-cost storage technologies are not available. Third, the infrastructure is inadequate. We need to address these challenges and barriers if we are to enjoy the benefits of an efficient and environmentally friendly energy sources. 
   An aggressive research and development program can help us overcome these challenges by reducing production costs from fossil and renewable sources, advancing storage technologies, and addressing safety concerns with efforts in establishing codes and standards. Our Nation needs a sustained and focused research, development, and demonstration program to make hydrogen a viable source of energy. 
   The strategy should focus on mid-term and long-term goals. We must support development of technologies that enable distributed electric-generation fuel cell systems and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles for transportation applications. For the long term, we should look to hydrogen technologies that enhance renewable systems and offer us the promise of clean, abundant fuels. 
   The current Hydrogen Program, administered by the Department of Energy, supports a broad range of research and development projects in the areas of hydrogen production, storage, and use in a safe and cost-effective manner. Some of these new technologies may become available for wider use in the next few years. The most promising include advanced natural gas- and biomass-based hydrogen production technologies, high pressure gaseous and cryogas storage systems, and reversible Proton Exchange Membrane, PEM, fuel cell systems. Other projects lay the groundwork for long range opportunities. These activities need continued support if the Nation is to enjoy the benefits of a clean energy source. 
   The Hydrogen Program utilizes the talents of our national laboratories and our universities. The Lawrence Livermore, Los Alamos, Sandia, and Oak Ridge National Laboratories, as well as Jet Propulsion Laboratory and National Renewable Energy Laboratory, are involved in the program. The DOE Field Office at Golden, Colorado, and Nevada Operations Office in Nevada are also involved. University-led centers-of-excellence have been established at the University of Miami and the University of Hawaii. U.S. participation in the International Energy Agency contributes to the advancement of DOE hydrogen research through international cooperation. The program has also built strong links with the industry. This has resulted in strong industry participation and cost sharing. Cooperation between government, industry, universities, and the national laboratories is key to the successful development and commercialization of new and environmentally friendly energy technologies. 
   Today we are introducing legislation that reauthorizes and expands the Hydrogen Future Act of 1996. It highlights the need for a strong partnership between the Federal government, industry, and academia, and the importance of continued support for hydrogen research. It fosters collaboration between Federal agencies, state and local governments, universities, and industry, and modifies the current cost-sharing requirements to enable more participation in research projects by small companies. It adds provisions for the demonstration of hydrogen technologies at government facilities to expedite wider application of these technologies. The bill includes language to encourage international activities where appropriate in the DOE programs, both because of the need to develop world markets for our products and to encourage international development on a sustainable path. The legislation clarifies the composition of the Hydrogen Technical Advisory Panel that oversees the program for DOE and enhances inter-agency and inter-governmental cooperation in the hydrogen program. 
   The legislation we are introducing today authorizes $300 million over the next five years for research and development for hydrogen production, storage and use. This will allow advancement of technologies such as smaller-scale production systems that are applicable to distributed-generation and vehicle applications, advanced pressure vessels, photobiological and photocatalytic production of hydrogen, and carbon nanotubes, graphite nanofibers, and fullerenes. 
   The bill also authorizes $135 million for conducting integrated demonstrations of hydrogen technologies at governmental facilities. This provision will help secure industry participation through competitive solicitations for technology development and testing. It will test the viability of hydrogen production, storage, and use, and lead to the development of hydrogen-based operating experience acceptable to meet safety codes and standards. 
   By supporting this bill, we will be ushering in a new era of non-polluting energy. I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to voice my disagreement with the priorities set forth in the budget resolution we have been debating, and support for the amendments offered by my colleagues from South Carolina and New York, Senators HOLLINGS and SCHUMER. With our Nation at war, we must do all we can to support our troops, ensure that our homeland is secure, and continue our emphasis on significant domestic priorities, such as education and health care. This is why I believe it would be unwise to enact further tax cuts that would pit these priorities against each other for limited Federal dollars and lead us further down the path to fiscal irresponsibility. 
   We have commenced military operations against an enemy who has defied efforts at international diplomacy. Without a doubt, these efforts will come at substantial cost which is not reflected in this budget. Proponents must rely on budget tactics to show that we can allow additional tax cuts to be passed. I would like to associate my comments with those of my colleague from North Dakota, Senator Conrad, who rightfully attempted to enforce patriotic pause on this very point. 
   This budget repudiates our commitment to fight the evil of terrorism within our own borders. It fails to adequately fund homeland security, which is why I am a cosponsor of the amendment offered by my friend from New York, Senator Schumer, who has requested that $88 billion be provided over 11 years for urgent homeland security needs, including immediate funding for those on the home front--first responders, firefighters, port, border and transportation security. I also applaud the provisions for bioterrorism preparedness and threat and critical infrastructure assessment. At a time when threats to U.S. civilians within our borders are very real, we must not abandon, for the sake of tax cuts, our resolve to ensure the peace of mind of families at home and individuals in their workplaces--many who are praying for loved ones fighting in our armed services abroad. 
   This resolution calls for tax cuts that will do nothing to stimulate the economy, but would worsen the progressivity of the Tax Code. It would also rob our most important investment of required resources, and that is the investment in the education of America's children. We should be sending the message to our children that we will do all we can to give them the knowledge and tools to be able to meet future challenges that will face this country, when we in this body are long gone. Instead, if we pass additional tax cuts, we are saying that we will place political gain over a solid start in life for young Americans. This is why I voted for the amendment proposed by my colleague from Washington State, Senator Murray, along with others, that would have provided an $8.9 billion increase in education funding, as well as $8.9 billion for deficit reduction out of funding designated for tax cuts. This funding increase sought to fully fund the No Child Left Behind Act. We only began to fulfill some of the promises we made in passing this sweeping education reform law through the fiscal year 2003 appropriations process. We cannot let this investment waver in fiscal year 2004. 
   Finally, I oppose efforts to decrease Federal revenues sorely needed to ensure that all Medicare beneficiaries have access to the comprehensive prescription drug program that they deserve. Far too many seniors are currently unable to afford the costs of the prescription drugs that their doctors prescribe. Seniors must be able to obtain meaningful prescription drug coverage through the traditional Medicare Program. I supported the amendment sponsored by my colleagues, Senators BOB GRAHAM, DORGAN, and STABENOW, which would have made sure that a Medicare prescription drug benefit is adequately funded, by increasing the Medicare reserve fund by approximately $220 billion. The amendment  would also have guaranteed that participants in traditional Medicare receive the same prescription drug benefit as beneficiaries that enroll in private Medicare health plans. The funding should be included in the budget resolution to adequately protect our Nation's seniors against the increasing costs of prescription drugs instead of to accommodate additional tax cuts. The Graham-Dorgan-Stabenow amendment would have reduced the size of the tax cuts in the budget resolution by approximately $400 billion and provided a clear choice between additional tax cuts or a meaningful prescription drug benefit. 
   The time has come to face our fiscal responsibilities honestly. Tax cuts are not the answer at this point in our Nation's history. I join with Senator Hollings and other colleagues in opposition to the passage of additional tax cuts that would steal much needed revenues at a time of great need. I owe it to the people of Hawaii and we owe it to the people of America. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Thank you, Mr. President. I rise today to speak on the Low Income Taxpayer Protection Act of 2003, which Senator Bingaman and I are introducing today. I thank Senator Bingaman for his leadership on this important issue. 
   The legislation that my colleague from New Mexico and I are introducing would provide the Department of the Treasury with the authority to regulate income tax refund anticipation loans, RALs, and prohibit excessive fees. The bill would also provide additional opportunities for low-income taxpayers to receive assistance with tax preparation and filing their taxes and thus, we are seeking to meet taxpayers' needs for assistance while attempting to discourage a predatory practice. 
   According to the U.S. Census Bureau, in 2001, the Earned Income Tax Credit, EITC, was responsible for elevating nearly four million people above the poverty line. This credit has helped and continues to help low-income individuals and families to meet their food, clothing, housing, transportation, and education needs. 
   However, while this tax relief is benefitting families who need it most, the EITC's impact is being unnecessarily limited. Earned Income Tax Credit benefits intended for working families are increasingly being diminished by often exorbitant tax preparation fees and the growing use of high-interest refund anticipation loans, which typically carry triple-digit interest rates. 
   In 1999, according to a report published by the Brookings Institution, an estimated $1.75 billion intended to assist low-income families went to commercial tax preparers and affiliated national banks for tax assistance, electronic filing of returns, and high-cost refund loans. Although tax preparation services are useful, when combined with refund anticipation loans and other fees, these services are overpriced. The report further stated that 39 percent of taxpayers who earned the EITC received their refund through a refund anticipation loan, while only  four percent of those who did not receive the EITC purchased a refund anticipation loan. Clearly, RALs were heavily marketed to a specific population of taxpayer. Forty-seven percent of all EITC dollars were distributed to recipients through these loans. In my state of Hawaii, in the Honolulu metropolitan statistical area, 27.7 percent of all EITC dollars were associated with refund anticipation loans. These loans take money away from the day-to-day, kitchen-table needs of the low-income families. 
   Furthermore, refund anticipation loans carry interest rates that range from 97.4 percent to more than 2,000 percent. The interest rates and fees charged on these products are not justified for the short length of time that these loans cover. The typical rapid refund loan length is two weeks. These loans carry even less risk because of the Debt Indicator program. The Debt Indicator program allows the Internal Revenue Service to inform the lender if the applicant for a refund loan has any outstanding Federal debts. The risk is further reduced because loan issuers share information about outstanding delinquencies that refund anticipation loan applicants owe and are able to collect debts for each other. 
   This bill would terminate the Debt Indicator program. In 1995, the use of the Debt Indicator was suspended because of massive fraud in e-filed returns with RALs. After the program was discontinued, RAL participation declined. The use of the Debt Indicator was reinstated in 1999. Remarks from H & R Block Chief Executive Officer Frank L. Salizzoni upon the reinstatement of the program state that the Debt Indicator ``is good news for many of our clients who opt to receive the amount of their refund through Refund Anticipation Loans. The IRS program will likely result in substantially lower fees for this service.'' However, according to a study conducted by the Consumer Federation of America and the National Consumer Law Center, that has not been the case for at least one of the major tax preparers. H & R Block and Household Bank's fees dropped for a year after the Debt Indicator was reinstated. The fees rose significantly from 2000 to 2001, which increased H & R Block's revenue from RALs by 49 percent. Per RAL revenue rose by 43.9 percent while RAL sales volume increased by only 2.7 percent. The expected outcome that RAL prices would go down as a result of the reinstatement of the indicator has not occurred. The use of the Debt Indicator should again be stopped. 
   Another important provision in the bill is authorization language for a grant program to link tax preparation services with the establishment of a bank account. There are still approximately four million EITC recipients that are classified as unbanked, and lack a formal relationship with a financial institution. It has been estimated that 45 percent of EITC recipients pay for check cashing services. These check cashing services reduce EITC benefits by $130 million. Having a bank account allows individuals not only to receive their tax refund check faster than waiting for a paper check, but also does not impose the excessive fees that check cashing services and refund anticipation loan providers assess. An account at a bank or credit union provides consumers alternatives to rapid refund loans, check cashing services, and lower cost remittances. In addition, bank and credit union accounts provide access to saving and borrowing services found at mainstream financial institutions. This grant program builds upon the First Accounts initiative which has funded pilot projects that have coupled tax preparation services with the establishment of bank accounts. An example of such a project is the partnership that has been established among The Center for Law & Human Services, Accounting Aid Society, ShoreBank, National Consumer Law Center, and Consumer Federation of America that is taking place in Chicago and Detroit. More of these programs are necessary to provide much needed tax preparation assistance and to encourage the use of mainstream financial services. 
   I encourage all of my colleagues to support this legislation. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Postmasters Equity Act of 2003, and I am pleased to have Senators COLLINS, DASCHLE, JEFFORDS, INOUYE, MIKULSKI, and SARBANES join me as original cosponsors. Our bill modifies legislation I offered in the 107th Congress. That bill, S. 177, the Postmasters Fairness Act, enjoyed the bipartisan support of 49 members of the U.S. Senate. Its House companion bill, H.R. 250, had 291 cosponsors. 
   The measure I introduce today differs from its predecessor in that it provides postmasters the option of fact finding rather than binding arbitration if the postmasters management associations and the Postal Service are unable to reach agreement on specific issues. Fact finding would allow for an unbiased review of the issues in dispute and the issuance of non-binding recommendations. The measure would also define the term postmaster for the first time. 
   Extending the option of fact finding to postmasters will enable them to take a more active and constructive role in managing their individual post offices and discussing compensation issues with the Postal Service. The Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 created a consultative process for postmasters and other non-union postal  employees to negotiate pay and benefits. However, under the current system, postmasters have seen an erosion of their role in improving the quality of mail services to postal patrons and managing their local post offices. This has been particularly true for postmasters responsible for small and medium sized post offices where they serve as front line managers. These circumstances are among factors contributing to the decline in the number of postmasters since the reorganization of the Postal Service over three decades ago. 
   At the present time, postmasters lack recourse when consultation fails, and my bill extends to our Nation's postmasters what is currently enjoyed by postal supervisors. While postal supervisors have the same consultation process as postmasters, the supervisors also have fact finding, which provides them with greater ability to negotiate with USPS management. 
   The Postal Service estimates that each day seven million customers transact business at post offices. We expect timely delivery of the mail, six days a week, and the Postal Service does not disappoint us. Given the regularity of mail delivery and the number of Americans visiting post offices daily, it is no wonder that we have come to view our neighborhood post offices as cornerstones of our communities. In fact, many of our towns and cities have developed around a post office where the postmaster served as the town's only link to the federal government. 
   Our Nation's postmasters are on the front line to ensure that the mail gets delivered in a timely manner, and they help fuel the infrastructure that continues to boost the performance ratings of the Postal Service. Postmasters have enabled us to communicate with one another since the dawn of this great republic. I urge my colleagues to join me in showing their support for our Nation's postmasters by cosponsoring this legislation. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to express my deep concerns that we are not as prepared as we should be for the consequences of a war with Iraq. 
   I have complete confidence in the ability of our armed services to defeat Iraq. We have a superb military which is, without a doubt, the most effective and most professional fighting force ever fielded in the history of mankind. 
   We can all be proud of our dedicated military men and women. It is their dedication and willingness to risk their lives in the service of their country that places a special responsibility on our shoulders. Our responsibility is to ensure that their service is not expended in the vain pursuit of ill-defined objectives and that our national security is truly enhanced. 
